 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 BANCO DE COMERCIO 
EXTERIOR DE COLOMBIA 

(BANCOLDEX)  

GREEN BOND FRAMEWORK 

 

 

SECOND PARTY OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

June 29th, 2017 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 

Catarina da Silva (Amsterdam) 

Charlotte Peyraud (New York) 

Senior Advisor, Advisory Services 
catarina.dasilva@sustainalytics.com 
(+31) 20 205 0045 
 
 
 
 

Senior Advisor, Institutional Relations 
charlotte.peyraud@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 646 518 0184 

 
 

Vikram Puppala  

Manager,  

© Sustainalytics 2017 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

1. 

INTRODUCTION 

2.  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 

Section 1: Assessment of Bancóldex’s Environmental Strategy 
Section 2: Impact of the use of proceeds 
Section 3: Sustainalytics Opinion on the Green Bond Framework 
Conclusion 

APPENDICES 

Appendix 1: Project portfolio 
Appendix 2: Green Bond External Review Form 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

3 

4 
4 
6 
9 
10 

11 
11 
12 

18 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

1. INTRODUCTION 
 
Banco  de  Comercio  Exterior  de  Colombia  S.A.  (Bancóldex)  is  a  state  owned  development  bank  that 
provides financial solutions to support the growth of Colombian companies of all sizes and industries. 1 
Bancóldex  also  provides  non-financial  solutions  that  aim  to  promote  innovation  and  environmental 
stewardship amongst Colombian companies.  
 
Bancóldex has developed a Green Bond Framework2 in accordance with which it intends to issue a green 
bond.  The net proceeds of the green bond will be used to finance or refinance, in whole or in part, existing 
and  future  projects  that  promote  sustainable  development  in  Colombia  and  the  transition  to  a  low-
carbon, climate-resilient economy. Proceeds of the bond will be directed towards five categories:  

1.  Pollution  control  and  resource  efficiency  (including  waste  management  and  wastewater 

treatment) 

2.  Sustainable transport 
3.  Energy efficiency 
4.  Renewable energy 
5.  Sustainable buildings 

 
A list of projected allocations per eligibility criterion that will be considered for refinancing purposes is 
provided in Appendix 1. 
 
Bancóldex has engaged Sustainalytics to provide a second-party opinion on the Bancóldex Green Bond 
Framework.3 As part of this engagement process, Sustainalytics held conversations with various members 
of Bancóldex’s team, including the treasury department, legal department, commercial department, and 
risk  vice-presidency.  These  conversations  clarified  the  use  of  proceeds,  management  of  proceeds  and 
reporting aspects of the green bond as well as the environmental and social corporate policy of Bancóldex. 
Sustainalytics  also  reviewed  relevant  public  documents  and  non-public  information  relating  to  the 
analysis  of  eligible  projects  under  Bancóldex’s  Green  Bond  Framework.  Following  this  engagement 
between Bancóldex and Sustainalytics, some elements of the Green Bond Framework were clarified to 
ensure an alignment with the level of disclosure expected by ICMA’s Green Bond Principles, 2017.4 
 
This document contains Sustainalytics’ opinion on the Bancóldex Green Bond Framework and should be 
read in conjunction with that framework. 
 
 

 
1 Except for excluded activities, defined in Bancoldex’s Environmental and Social Management Policy 
(https://www.bancoldex.com/documentos/4603_Formato_de_información_ambiental_y_social.pdf - section F) 
2 https://www.bancoldex.com/informacion-emisiones/prospecto-bonos-2014.aspx 
 
3 https://www.bancoldex.com/informacion-emisiones/prospecto-bonos-2014.aspx 
4 “The Green Bond Principles 2017”, dated 2 June 2017, issued by the International Capital Market Association (ICMA) 

 

 

3 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

2. SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
 
Section 1: Assessment of Bancóldex’s Environmental Strategy 
 
Contribution of the green bond to Bancóldex’s environmental strategy  
As  highlighted  in  the  framework  document,  Bancóldex  has  an  explicit  commitment  to  contribute  to 
sustainable  development 
in  Colombia  through  financial  products  and  services.  Bancóldex  has 
implemented an Environmental and Social Corporate Policy with the following three pillars5:  

a)  Eco-efficiency,  which  defines  the  internal  actions  implemented  to  reduce  the  environmental 

impact of Bancóldex´s operations;  

b)  Management of environmental and social risks, through which Bancóldex identifies and classifies 

the social and environmental risk of its portfolio;  

c)  Green  financial  and  non-financial  product  design,  privileging  investments  for  mitigation  and 

adaptation to climate change, while generating social benefits;  

 
Specifically, the green product design pillar seeks to support the Colombian business sector to become 
more  competitive  while  making  a  responsible  use  of  natural  resources  and  striving  for  a  positive 
environmental impact.6 In line with this commitment, Bancóldex has been implementing green financial 
instruments  that  seek  to  catalyse  investments  that  reduce  greenhouse  gas  emissions,  such  as  the 
incorporation of clean technologies in Bogota’s Mass Transportation System, financing a fleet of electric 
taxis, and supporting renewable energy investments and energy efficiency at the national level. 
 
Following an assessment of several projects that may be financed with the proceeds from the green bond, 
Sustainalytics is confident that the issuance of Bancóldex’s green bond aligns with these commitments 
and will support the bank’s Environmental and Social Corporate Policy.  
 
Well positioned to manage social and environmental risks associated with the financed projects 
By offering financing services, banks are exposed to risks associated with controversial companies and/or 
projects  they  may  finance.  To  reduce  exposure  and  prevent  negative  impacts,  banks  are  expected  to 
implement social and environmental risk assessments for projects that they choose to finance.  
 
In  line  with  this  expectation,  Bancóldex  implemented  an  Environmental  and  Social  Risk  Management 
System  (ESMS)  for  second-tier  banking  activities  in  2013,  with  the  support  of  the  Inter-American 
Development Bank (IADB).  This system allows Bancóldex to identify the environmental and social risks of 
credit  operations,  to  have  a  more  comprehensive  profile  of  its  clients  in  the  portfolio,  and  to  make 
investment decisions in a more informed way. This assessment includes five stages:  
a)  verification of the coherence of the information provided by the enterprise,  

 
5 https://www.bancoldex.com/Modelo-de-gestion-ambiental-Bancoldex/Politica-AmbSocial.aspx 
6  For  instance,  according  to  its  2016  Annual  Report,  Bancoldex  has  ‘Sustainable  Development  Products”,  which  are  an  alternative  financing 
product that supports investment  in environmental monitoring systems, and is focused on mitigating the negative  effects of the business 
activity on the environment. This credit line seeks to encourage companies to have a stronger sustainability approach, so that they are more 
competitive  in  markets  that  have  higher  environmental  standards  and  are  able  to  offer  goods  and  services  with  added  value  in  terms  of 
environmental protection and care. 

 

 

4 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

b)  initial categorization of the level of risk associated with the credit operation,  
c) 

identification  of  environmental  and  social  risks,  that  are  not  being  avoided,  mitigated  or 
compensated, 

d)  definitive categorization, 
e)  monitoring  measures  aimed  at  controlling  and  mitigating  risks  that  are  not  being  avoided, 

mitigated or compensated. 

 
According to this information, Bancóldex assigns one of the following socio-environmental risk categories 
to the credit operation: High Risk (Category A), Medium Risk (Category B), or Low Risk (Category C).  
 
In 2016, Bancóldex requested the International Finance Corporation (IFC) to evaluate its Environmental 
and  Social  Risk  Management  System.  IFC  considered  Bancóldex´s  ESMS  as  “developed”  and  provided 
additional  recommendations.  As  part  of  its  continuous  improvement  process,  Bancóldex  is  currently 
implementing some adjustments to address the improvements areas identified during the evaluation.  
 
Sustainalytics recognizes that several development projects such as those to be financed and refinanced 
by the bond can generate environmental and social risks. Material risks might include wastewater and 
liquid waste generation, solid waste production, air pollution, noise nuisance, and health and safety risks. 
Of the portfolio of projects that may be refinanced, Bancóldex discloses that the vast majority (81%) has 
a  risk  category  of  ‘B’  according  to  IADB’s  risk  classification,7  meaning  that  projects  or  operations may 
“cause mostly local and short-term negative environmental and associated social impacts, and for which 
effective mitigation measures are readily available.”8 
 
Overall, given the level of assessment required in Bancóldex’s Environmental and Social Risk Management 
System, the exclusionary criteria (which identify activities that cannot be financed by Bancóldex due to 
associated risks), and the due diligence performed at project level, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that 
Bancóldex is well positioned to identify, manage and address environmental and social risks associated 
with the projects financed. 
 
Collaborating with other stakeholders locally and internationally 
Bancóldex  collaborates  with  different 
its 
locally  and 
environmental management and to promote sustainable development and mitigate climate change. In 
Sustainalytics’ view, this level of engagement also demonstrates the bank’s commitment to best practices. 
For example, Bancóldex is a member of the:  

internationally,  to  strengthen 

initiatives, 

• 

• 

• 

“Protocolo Verde”, an agreement between the financial sector and the Colombian government 
that seeks to join efforts to promote sustainable development in Colombia; 
International Development Finance Club (IDFC) 
SISCLIMA  initiative,  a  space  for  public-private  dialogue  to  achieve  coherence  and  joint 
opportunities for the financing of Colombia’s climate change mitigation efforts. 

 
7 IADB’s risk classification model has been used in Bancoldex’s framework as it is a model recognized by several investors worldwide. Bancoldex’s 
socio-environmental risk categorization is considered to be stricter than IADB’s system, classifying as High Risk (Catgeory A) several projects 
that  are  perceived  as  Medium  Risk  (Category  B)  by  IADB.  Bancoldex  has  engaged  with  Sitawi  to  map  and  categorize  the  eligible  projects 
according to IADB’s risk categories.  

8 http://www.iadb.org/en/topics/sustainability/project-categories,8736.html 

 

 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

 
Based on the analysis of Bancóldex’s Environmental and Social Corporate Policy, its Environmental and 
Social  Risk  Management  System,  and  the  bank’s  public  commitments  to  promote  sustainable 
development, Sustainalytics believes that Bancóldex is well positioned to issue a green bond. 
 
 
Section 2: Impact of the use of proceeds 
 
Impact from Use of Proceeds 
Proceeds of the bond will be directed towards five categories:  

1.  Pollution  control  and  resource  efficiency  (including  waste  management  and  wastewater 

treatment) 

2.  Sustainable transport 
3.  Energy efficiency 
4.  Renewable energy 
5.  Sustainable buildings 

 
Overall,  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  proceeds  from  the  green  bond  will  have  clear 
environmental  benefits,  contributing  to  achieving  Colombia’s  environmental  targets  to  reduce  GHG 
emissions  and  improving  natural  resource  efficiency.  As  highlighted  in  the  framework  document,  the 
projects  financed  with  the  proceeds  of  the  green  bond  will  contribute  to  Colombia’s  commitments 
established  in  the  Paris  Agreement,  according  to which  the  Colombian  government  intends to  reduce 
greenhouse-gas emissions by 20% by 2030, as stated in its Intended Nationally Determined Contribution 
(INDC), as well as  to  reach  the  objectives  established  in  the  National Development Plan 2014  –  2018, 
specifically with regards to “Green Growth Strategies”.9 Specific objectives established by the Colombian 
government include:  

(i) 
(ii) 

(iii) 

move towards sustainable and low-carbon growth; 
protect  and  ensure  the  sustainable  use  of  natural  resources  and  improve  environmental 
quality and governance; and  
achieve resilient growth and reduce vulnerability to climate change risks.  

 
Below, Sustainalytics provides an opinion on the impact of the Bancóldex’s green bond eligibility criteria, 
considering the local context and focusing on the analysis of some of the projects financed over the past 
years by Bancóldex.10  
 
Importance of water efficiency and wastewater treatment in Colombia’s context 
Among the projects analysed by Sustainalytics and that have been included in Bancóldex’s green bond 
portfolio, there were several examples related to wastewater treatment and reducing water pollution, 

 
9 https://www.minagricultura.gov.co/planeacion-control-

gestion/Gestin/Plan%20de%20Acci%C3%B3n/PLAN%20NACIONAL%20DE%20DESARROLLO%202014%20-
%202018%20TODOS%20POR%20UN%20NUEVO%20PAIS.pdf  

10 Bancoldex has shared with Sustainalytics the environmental and social assessment of several projects that it has implemented in previous 
years and that are part of the current eligible project portfolio. Analysed projects finance initiatives of Colombian companies that meet the 
green bond eligibility criteria. 

 

 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

such as the construction and operation of a wastewater treatment plant in Cartagena, water treatment 
equipment for a plant in Medellin, and water treatment equipment and biodigestors to process organic 
waste generated by livestock farming companies.  
 
Technically,  water  is  abundant  in  Colombia.  However,  due  to  extreme  variability  in  annual  rainfall, 
pollution  from  industrial  and  agricultural  activities,  and  inadequate  infrastructure  resulting  in  unequal 
distribution, the country is also susceptible to water stress and draughts. According to a report by Stratfor, 
a  geopolitical  intelligence  platform,  regulations  aimed  at  mitigating  pollution  exist  but  are  often  not 
coordinated  or  enforced.  Therefore,  pollution  remains  an  issue  for  Colombia’s  water  supply.11  In  this 
context,  Sustainalytics  considers  that  projects  that  improve  water  efficiency,  treat  wastewater,  and 
reduce  water  pollution  will  provide  a  positive  contribution  to  support  companies  complying  with 
environmental legislation, protect the country’s clean water resources, and allow for clean water supply.   
 
Importance of providing clean transportation for 6 million passengers in Bogota 
The IFC states that, in Bogotá, public and private transport systems consume 67% of energy and that there 
are more than 1.5 million vehicles in the city, along with bus rapid transit (BRT) systems and an extensive 
network of bike lanes.12 The TransMilenio, a BRT system13 that was developed by Bogota’s bus operator 
in 2012, resulted in improved public transportation for 6 million passengers.  
 
Even  though  an  important  part  of  the  BRT’s  fleet  is  still  fuelled  by  diesel  and  natural  gas  technology, 
Bancóldex’s green bond will support the efforts to transition towards low-carbon transportation by only 
financing the acquisition of hybrid and electric vehicles for public or private transportation of passengers 
or cargo. Sustainalytics recognizes that hybrid vehicles, despite still being partly dependent on fossil fuels, 
qualify as a transition solution towards a low-carbon economy and can therefore be financed with the 
proceeds from a green bond. In addition, according to 2016 sample projects disclosed by Bancóldex to 
Sustainalytics, Bancóldex has also financed the first electric taxi fleets in Bogota. Overall Sustainalytics 
considers that these expenditures support a transition to clean transport technologies that, in addition to 
contributing to GHG emissions targets, will also reduce air pollution and improve the air quality in Bogota.  
 
Positive impact of renewable energy and energy efficiency projects in Colombia 
Colombia’s  government  intends  to  reduce  greenhouse-gas  emissions  by  20%  by  2030,  and  energy 
efficiency projects are expected to represent an important contribution to this target. According to the 
analysed green bond portfolio, Bancóldex has supported projects such as: 

Financing solar energy panels and batteries for energy storage; 
Energy monitoring systems; 

• 
•  Acquisition of more energy efficient technologies, leading to a reduction of energy consumption;  
• 

Improving lighting systems, generating an increase of 50-80% in energy efficiency; 
Improving industrial processes in order to increase energy efficiency;  
Cogeneration, producing energy from industrial heat. 

• 

• 

• 

 
11 Stratfor, (2016)  https://www.stratfor.com/analysis/colombia-abundant-water-brings-no-security. 
12 International Finance Corporation, https://www.ifc.org/wps/wcm/connect/51183b2d-c82e-443e-bb9b-68d9572dd48d/3503-IFC-

Climate_Investment_Opportunity-Report-Dec-FINAL.pdf?MOD=AJPERES . 

13 The BRT system consists of fleet management and real-time monitoring via information technology with more efficient bus routing and 

lower GHG emissions. 

 

 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

 
Sustainalytics raised two questions related to the impact of energy efficiency projects. These have been 
clarified by Bancóldex: 

o  Energy  efficiency  equipment  labelling:  Sustainalytics  recognizes  that,  with  respect  to 
investments  in  energy  efficiency,  best  practice  in  the  green  bond  market  is  to  invest  in 
technologies  that  ensure  a  minimum  of  20-30%  performance  improvement  in  energy 
efficiency. Bancóldex has clarified that energy efficiency labelling is not yet widely used for 
products  in  Colombia,14  but  that,  nonetheless,  according  to  information  available  on  each 
project financed, average gains surpass the recommended threshold.  

o  Replacing old power systems using high efficiency motors powered by natural gas in industrial 
processes: Sustainalytics considers that projects that use natural gas are ‘less-brown’, and do 
not  qualify  as  ‘green’  (given  that  they  prolong  dependency  on  fossil  fuel  technology). 
Bancóldex ensured to Sustainalytics that these projects: (i) represent best efforts in the local 
industrial  context,  (ii)  provide  an  important  contribution  to  energy  efficiency  efforts  in 
industrial processes in Colombia, and (iii) will only be included when there is a clear net GHG 
emissions  reduction.  Given  this  clarification,  Sustainalytics  has  a  positive  view  on  the 
contribution of these efforts to improve energy efficiency. Furthermore, overall, these projects 
represent only 3% of the current project portfolio eligible for refinancing. 

 
Contribution  of  sustainable  buildings  to  greenhouse  gas  emissions  targets  and  sustainable  resource 
consumption  
Buildings in Latin America consume 21% of treated water and 42% of electricity, and are responsible for 
25% of carbon emissions.15 In 2015, Colombia launched an important green building initiative, which was 
translated into a new green building code announced by Colombia’s Housing Minister in June of that year. 
The plan, which aims to promote water and energy efficiency in new buildings, has received support from 
both the IFC and Switzerland’s State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO),16 and it is being replicated 
by other countries in the region. This initiative is of great importance for Colombia given that the country 
is highly urbanized, with 48.2 million inhabitants, 75% of whom live in cities. The IFC estimates almost 
USD 8 billion will be invested in new low-carbon buildings in Colombia by 2020. 
 
The  new  building  code,  officially  implemented  in  2016,  calls  for  a  balanced  used  of  resources  in  new 
buildings, leading to: 

• 

In a first phase of the program: 15% water and energy-use savings for commercial buildings, and 
savings of 10% for residential buildings; 

 
14 Since September 2016 the energy efficiency label developed by the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MINMINAS) will gradually become 
required for various products starting with refrigerators, washing machines and air conditioning equipment. Next year the label will be 
required for cooking houseware, water heaters and commercial refrigeration sets as well (Ministry of Mines and Energy 
(2016).https://www.minminas.gov.co/web/ingles/noticias?idNoticia=23815191) 

15 

http://www.ifc.org/wps/wcm/connect/news_ext_content/ifc_external_corporate_site/news+and+events/news/greeninglam_one+building+
at+a+time 

16 International Finance Corporation, https://www.ifc.org/wps/wcm/connect/51183b2d-c82e-443e-bb9b-68d9572dd48d/3503-IFC-

Climate_Investment_Opportunity-Report-Dec-FINAL.pdf?MOD=AJPERES  

 

 

 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

• 

By 2021: buildings are expected to consume up to 45% less water and energy, and this will reduce 
construction sector emissions by 28%, contributing to Colombia’s GHG emissions target. 

With respect to the sustainable buildings eligibility criterion, Sustainalytics recognizes that there is a very 
low degree of penetration of green building certifications initiatives in Colombia. Notably, there are only 
105  LEED-certified  buildings  in  the  country.17  Given  this  context,  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that 
supporting sustainable building projects that are aligned with the Colombian government’s green building 
code will result in a significant overall impact in Colombia’s context.  
 
Alignment with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
Sustainalytics  is  confident  that  given  the  eligibility  criteria  defined  in  the  Bancóldex  Green  Bond 
Framework, the selected projects will provide a positive contribution, in particular to the following SGDs: 
SDG 6 Clean water and sanitation, in particular to targets related to improving water quality by 
reducing pollution and increasing water efficiency;  
SDG 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all, specifically 
contributing to targets related to increasing renewable energy and energy efficiency; 
SDG 11 Sustainable Cities, specifically targets to (i) reduce the adverse per capita environmental 
impact of cities, including by paying special attention to air quality and municipal and other waste 
management, and (ii) providing access to safe, affordable, accessible and sustainable transport 
systems for all, notably by expanding public transport. 

• 

• 

• 

 
 
Section 3: Sustainalytics Opinion on the Green Bond Framework 
 
Use of Proceeds 
Overall, Sustainalytics views Bancóldex’s eligibility criteria for the use of proceeds under its green bond 
framework as credible and robust. All of the use of proceeds categories are recognized as eligible by the 
Green Bond Principles (GBP) 2017. For considerations on the impact of the use of proceeds please see 
Section 2 of this document.  
 
Process for Project Evaluation and Selection  
Bancóldex communicates transparently about how the eligibility criteria for the use of proceeds aligns 
with  the  bank’s  strategy  and  with  Colombia’s  sustainable  development  priorities.  Bancóldex’s  eligible 
projects are evaluated and selected by a dedicated Green Bond Committee that includes team members 
from different departments such as risk management and treasury. Sustainalytics considers this to be in 
line with recommended market practice. This Committee will ensure that selected projects are aligned 
with the eligibility criteria defined in the green bond framework, and will assess the impacts associated 
with projects classified as ‘Risk Category A’. Sustainalytics’ views on Bancóldex’s Environmental and Social 
Risk Management System have been provided in Section 1 of this document. Overall, Sustainalytics is of 
the opinion that Bancóldex is well positioned to identify, manage and address environmental and social 
risks associated with the projects financed. 
 
 

 
17 http://www.gbig.org/places/336  

 

 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Reporting 
Throughout  the  term  of  the  bond,  Bancóldex  will  disclose  annually  the  allocated  proceeds,  providing 
information  about  the  number  of  beneficiaries,  the  average  loan  value,  and  the  allocation  per  use  of 
proceeds category. The information will be externally verified by an auditor, and published in the report 
“Use of Resources of the Green Bond”. This is in line with best market practice.  
With  regard  to  impact  reporting,  Bancóldex  will  publish  up  to  four  case  studies  to  display  the 
environmental  impact  of  selected  projects.  Bancóldex  specifies  that  selected  projects  will  be 
representative with respect to financing and environmental impact, and impact will be aligned with the 
metrics defined in the green bond framework. Sustainalytics recognizes Bancóldex’s ongoing efforts, and 
recommends that the issuer strive for greater transparency with respect to impact reporting. 
 
Alignment with Green Bond Principles 2017:  
Sustainalytics has determined that the Bancóldex Green Bond Framework aligns to the four pillars of the 
Green Bond Principles 2017, as detailed in Appendix 2: Green Bond External Review Form. 
 
Conclusion 
Bancóldex, a Colombian development bank, intends to issue a green bond to finance or refinance existing 
and future projects in Bancóldex’s portfolio, that promote sustainable development in Colombia and the 
transition  to  a  low-carbon,  climate-resilient  economy.  The  net  proceeds  of  the  green  bond  will  be 
allocated  towards  the  following  eligible  categories:  (i)  Pollution  control  and  resource  efficiency;  (ii) 
Sustainable transport; (iii) Energy efficiency; (iv) Renewable energy; and (v) Sustainable buildings. 
 
Bancóldex has an explicit commitment to contribute to sustainable development in Colombia through its 
financial products and services. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the proceeds from the green bond will 
have clear environmental benefits and contribute to: achieving commitments established in Bancóldex’s 
Environmental and Social Corporate Policy; achieving Colombia’s commitments established in the Paris 
Agreement to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions by 20% by 2030; and advancing SDGs 6, 7 and 11. With 
respect to investments in the energy efficiency category, some activities related to replacing old power 
systems  in  industrial  processes  using  high  efficiency  motors  powered  by  natural  gas,  do  not,  in 
Sustainalytics’ view, qualify as ‘green’. Nonetheless, Sustainalytics has a positive view on the contribution 
of these efforts to improve energy efficiency in the local context. 
  
Furthermore,  after  analysing  the  Bank’s  Environmental  and  Social  Risk  Management  System, 
Sustainalytics  is  confident  that  Bancóldex  is  well  positioned  to  identify,  manage  and  address 
environmental and social risks associated with the projects financed. 
 
Bancóldex’s eligible projects are evaluated and selected by a dedicated Green Bond Committee, and the 
Bank  communicates  transparently  about  the  portfolio  that  is  eligible  for  refinancing.  While  allocation 
reporting will be disclosed annually and is externally verified, Sustainalytics recommends that the issuer 
strive for greater transparency with respect to impact reporting. 
 
Based on the above, Sustainalytics is confident that Bancóldex is well positioned to issue a Green Bond 
and that the Bancóldex Green Bond Framework is transparent and in alignment with the four pillars of 
ICMA’s Green Bond Principles 2017.  

 

 

10 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

  
APPENDICES 
 
Appendix 1: Project portfolio 
 
Considering the eligibility and exclusionary criteria, Bancóldex has identified a portfolio which includes 
117  projects  that  could  receive  allocations  from  its  green  bond  issuance.  This  portfolio  amounts  to 
approximately USD 50,0 million (COP 145.439 million) million as of May 26, 2017, representing 79% of the 
use of proceeds of the green bond at the time of issuance. 
 
Below a distribution of the project portfolio per eligibility criteria is presented. 
 

 

 

11 

 

 
 

 

 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics is the largest independent provider of sustainability 
research, analysis, and services to investors. We serve over 250 
institutional investors which include some of the world's largest asset 
owners and asset managers. Through over 20 years of experience 
serving the responsible investment (RI) market, we have gained a 
reputation for providing high-quality ESG research solutions and 
excellent client service. 

Sustainalytics is headed by seasoned professionals in the field of 
business, finance, and sustainability, with a wealth of experience in the 
Responsible Investment area. After more than 20 years of local 
experience and expertise in the Responsible Investment (RI) market 
Sustainalytics has developed a comprehensive understanding of trends 
and best practices and a solid process to assist organisations in 
integrating ESG considerations into their policies and strategies. We 
have worked with some of the world’s financial institutions including 
pension plans, investment managers and banks providing customised 
support to help them achieve their RI objectives. Clients include ABN 
AMRO, APG, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank, ING Bank, Lombard 
Odier, Lloyds Bank, Triodos Bank, UBS and over 250 other financial 
institutions and organisations. 

Sustainalytics now has a staff of 250 employees globally, including over 
120 analysts, with operations in Amsterdam, Boston, Bucharest, 
Frankfurt, New York, Paris, London, Singapore, Sydney, Timisoara, and 
Toronto, and representation in Brussels and Washington DC. 

In 2015, Sustainalytics was named the Best 
SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
GlobalCapital. In December 2014, for the 
third year in a row, Sustainalytics was 
named best sustainable and responsible 
investment research firm in the 
Independent Research in Responsible 
Investment (IRRI) Survey, conducted by 
Thomson Reuters and SRI-CONNECT.  

 

 

18 

