 

 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 BANCO NACIONAL DE 

OBRAS Y SERVICIOS 
PUBLICOS, S.N.C.  

(BANOBRAS)  

SUSTAINABILITY BOND 

FRAMEWORK 

 

SECOND OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

 

August 2017 

Catarina da Silva (Amsterdam) 

 

Senior Associate, Advisory Services 
catarina.dasilva@sustainalytics.com 
(+31) 20 205 0045 
 
 
 
 

Alexandra Rodrigues (London) 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
Associate, Advisory Services 
 
alexandra.rodrigues@sustainalytics.com 
www.sustainalytics.com 
(+44) 20 3514 3123 
 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
 

Charlotte Peyraud (New York) 

Senior Associate, Institutional Relations 
charlotte.peyraud@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 646 518 0184 

 
 

Vikram Puppala  

Manager,  

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

1. 

Introduction 

2.  Sustainalytics’ Opinion 

Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the Sustainability Bond Framework 
Section 2: Assessment of Banobras’ Mandate and Strategy 
Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds 
Conclusion 

APPENDICES 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

2 

3 
3 
4 
5 
10 

11 

20 

1 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

1. INTRODUCTION 
 
Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, Sociedad Nacional de Crédito, “Banobras”, is a state-owned 
Mexican  development  bank  that  seeks  to  improving  the  quality  of  life  of  local  populations  while 
contributing to the country’s sustainable development. Banobras provides financing and refinancing to 
public  and  private  investment  projects  focused  on  the  delivery  of  essential  infrastructure  and  public 
service  projects,  and  contributes  to  the  strengthening  of  federal,  state  and  municipal  government 
institutions. Banobras was founded in 1933 and is based in Mexico City. 
 
Banobras has developed a Sustainability Bond Framework1 in accordance with which it intends to issue 
sustainability  bonds.  The  net  proceeds  of  the  sustainability  bonds  issued  by  Banobras  will  be  used  to 
finance or refinance, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly (through lines of credit to other financial 
institutions) existing and future projects that promote sustainable development in Mexico. Proceeds of 
the bonds may be directed towards the following categories: 

1)  Affordable basic infrastructure to vulnerable segments of the population, 
2)  Public services infrastructure, 
3)  Disaster recovery, 
4)  Sustainable transport, 
5)  Renewable energy, 
6)  Energy efficiency, 
7)  Water efficiency and wastewater management, 
8)  Pollution prevention and control. 

 
A list of sample projects that may be considered for refinancing purposes is provided in Appendix 1. 
 
Banobras has engaged Sustainalytics to provide a second opinion on its Sustainability Bond Framework 
and on the framework’s environmental and social credentials. As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics 
held conversations with various members of Banobras’ team to understand the planned use of proceeds 
and  potential  social  and  environmental  impacts,  as  well  as  management  of  proceeds  and  reporting 
aspects  of  the  Banobras  Sustainability  Bond  Framework.  Sustainalytics  also  reviewed  relevant  public 
documents and non-public information. Following this engagement, some elements of the Sustainability 
Bond Framework were clarified to ensure an alignment with the level of disclosure expected by ICMA’s 
Sustainability Bond Guidelines, 2017. 2
  
 
This  document  contains  Sustainalytics’  opinion  on  the  Banobras  Sustainability  Bond  Framework  and 
should be read in conjunction with that framework.   
 
 
 
 

 
1 Available at: https://www.gob.mx/banobras/archivo/documentos  
2 “The Sustainability Bond Guidelines 2017”, dated 2 June 2017, issued by the International Capital Market Association (ICMA) 

2 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

2.  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
 
Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the Sustainability Bond Framework 
Overall,  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  Banobras’  Sustainability  Bond  Framework  is  credible  and 
transparent. Sustainalytics views the following elements of the Framework positively: 

• 

• 

Sustainalytics considers that the issuance of sustainability bonds strongly aligns with Banobras’ 
mandate and strategy, and will contribute to advancing the bank’s commitment to sustainable 
development in Mexico. 
The  eligible  categories  for  the  use  of  proceeds  are  aligned  with  those  recognized  by  ICMA’s 
Sustainability Bond Guidelines, and Sustainalytics considers that Banobras has provided a good 
level of disclosure for each category. Guidelines for ensuring that projects will benefit vulnerable 
populations  (as  recommended  by  the  Social  Bond  Principles)  have  been  clearly  defined.  For 
considerations on the impact of the use of proceeds please see Section 3.  

• 

•  Given the current efforts to formalize its social and environmental risk assessment management 
system,  in  alignment  with  best  international  practices,  and  evidence  of  practices  already 
implemented  by  Banobras,  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  bank  is  well  positioned  to 
address  the  environmental  and  social  risks  associated  with  the  projects  project  financed.  For 
further details please see Risk Assessment analysis in Section 2.  
Banobras’  Treasury  Department  has  a  dedicated  team  (Sustainability  Bond  Proceeds  Tracking 
Unit) that will select and approve projects with a positive social and/or environmental impact, 
and in alignment with the eligibility criteria. This is in line with recommended market practice. 
Banobras has disclosed that while allocation of proceeds by eligible category will not be audited 
on  a  case-by-case  basis,  several  of  the  programmes  financed  with  the  proceeds  of  the  bonds 
(namely  those  with  a  social  purpose)  are  verified  by  other  public  institutions  responsible  by 
auditing expenditures of public funds (such as SEDESOL and CONEVAL). Sustainalytics is of the 
opinion  that,  despite  this  not  being  in  full  alignment  with  market  best  practice,  which 
recommends  having  the  management  of  proceeds  externally  audited,  it  does  provide  an 
adequate level of assurance. 
Banobras will publish a Sustainability Bond Report one year after issuance. The report will include 
an annual compliance review by a third party, ensuring that the selected projects comply with the 
eligibility criteria defined in the Framework. This is in line with market best practice.  
Furthermore, the report will disclose the allocation of proceeds per eligible category and provide 
examples  of  financed  projects.  Banobras  will  also  strive  demonstrate  the  environmental  and 
social  impacts  of  the  projects  financed,  in  alignment  with  impact  indicators  defined  in  the 
Framework.  Additional  impact  reporting  information  will  be  made  available  by  other  public 
agencies (such as SEDESOL and CONEVAL), which provide detailed insights into the expenditures 
and impacts of federal programmes. For further insights on reporting please see Section 3. 

• 

• 

 
Alignment with Sustainability Bond Guidelines 2017:  
Sustainalytics has determined that the Banobras Sustainability Bond Framework aligns to the four pillars 
of the Sustainability Bond Guidelines 2017. For detailed information please refer to Appendix 2: Green 
Bond Programme External Review Form. 
 

 
 

3 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Section 2: Assessment of Banobras’ Mandate and Strategy  
 
Contribution of the Sustainability Bond to Banobras’ social and environmental mandate  
Banobras’ overall mission is to improve the quality of life of local populations by financing projects with 
high  social  returns  and  positive  impacts  on  the  environment.  In  order  to  support  the  fulfilment  of  its 
mission,  Banobras  contributes  to  public  and  private  sector  investment  in  infrastructure  and  public 
services, with the aim of supporting projects that increase the competitiveness of the country, provide 
basic social infrastructure and support the sustainable development of Mexico. This directly correlates to 
a social directive in that the provision of infrastructure and public services helps to meet the basic needs 
of the population and reduce social inequalities. The bank has supported its mission with a diverse range 
of past and ongoing projects, including infrastructure investments in energy, transportation, healthcare, 
and waste management.  
 
In addition to its socially-focused mission, Banobras has outlined an environmental strategy. The bank has 
taken  steps  to  align  itself  with  OECD’s  ‘green  bank’  definition:  a  public  institution  that  assists  in 
channelling  private  investment  in  climate-resilient  infrastructure,  low-carbon  markets,  and  other 
sustainable sectors such as water, sanitation, and solid waste management.3 Banobras’ environmental 
strategy consists of the three following pillars: 4  

1)  Increase financing for sustainable projects. 
2)  Design  and  implement  an Environmental  and  Social Risk  Management  System  to  improve  the 

environmental and social risk profile of its loan portfolio. 

3)  Foster awareness of resource efficiency and energy efficiency within the institution, as well as link 

Banobras abroad with strategic partners for the adoption of international best practices. 

 
Furthermore,  Banobras’  social  and  environmental  mandate,  is  closely  aligned  with  Mexico’s  National 
Development Plan 2013-2018 (Plan Nacional de Desarollo – PND). The PND establishes goals and policy 
actions that aim to boost the country’s economic growth and social development, and support transition 
to a low-carbon economy. The PND strongly depends on the contribution of development banks to expand 
access to credit and finance development projects. 
 
Following  a  review  of  Banobras’  mandate,  environmental  strategy  and  alignment  with  Mexico’s 
sustainable  development  priorities,  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  issuance  of  sustainability 
bonds  strongly  aligns  and  will  contribute  to  advancing  the  bank’s  commitment  to  sustainable 
development in Mexico. 
 
Well positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated with the projects  
As  disclosed  in  the  Sustainability  Bond  Framework,  Banobras  is  in  the  process  of  formalizing  its 
Environmental and Social Risk Management System (Sistema de Administracion de Riesgos Ambientales 
y Sociales - SARAS) to identify, evaluate, and mitigate the environmental and social risks associated with 
the projects  it  finances. The  SARAS  seeks to  better integrate risk management into Banobras’ internal 
credit  processes,  as  well  as  to  verify  compliance  with  national  environmental  and  social  regulations. 

 
3 http://www.oecd.org/greengrowth/green-investment-banks.htm 
4 https://www.gob.mx/cms/uploads/attachment/file/238294/Informe_Anual_de_Actividades_2016__comprimido__07.07.2017.pdf 

4 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Although efforts to formalize and fully integrate the SARAS into the bank’s credit system are ongoing, the 
bank  has  disclosed  to  Sustainalytics  that  all  financed  projects  are  already  subject  to  a  social  and 
environmental assessment by the Credit Officers. For example, there have been 16 recent projects that 
consider the Equator Principles and, for large infrastructure projects, Banobras requires the beneficiary 
of  the  credit  to  comply  with  international  safeguards  and  to  embrace  international  best  practices. 
Specifically, it is mandatory that the beneficiary performs an environmental impact assessment, and, in 
most cases, diligence on the social impacts is also required.  
 
Furthermore, Banobras is working towards becoming an Accredited Entity of the UN Green Climate Fund 
(GCF).5 In order for Banobras to become a GCF Accredited Entity, the bank needs to undergo a rigorous 
five-step accreditation process, which includes proving that Banobras is “capable of safeguarding funded 
projects  and  programmes  against  any  unforeseen  environmental  or  social  harm”.  This  assessment 
requires a systematic assessment of social and environmental risks in alignment with IFC’s Performance 
Standards. 
 
Given the current efforts to formalize its social and environmental risk assessment management system 
in  alignment  with  international  best  practices  (GCF  Accreditation),  and  evidence  of  practices  already 
implemented by the bank, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Banobras is well positioned to address the 
environmental and social risks associated with the projects project financed. 
 
 
Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds   
Sustainalytics has reviewed the use of proceeds and numerous projects implemented by Banobras, and is 
of the opinion that the proceeds from the sustainability bonds will have social and environmental benefits 
that  contribute  to  some  of  Mexico’s  most  pressing  national  sustainability  priorities.  Sustainalytics 
recommends that Banobras continues to perform thorough due diligence to identify and mitigate any 
potential negative impacts associated with the projects. Below, Sustainalytics provides an opinion on the 
impact of the Banobras’ sustainability bond eligibility criteria, considering the local context and focusing 
on the analysis of some of the projects financed over the past years.  
 
Improving infrastructure and access to essential public services as a means to tackling poverty  
The poverty rate in Mexico rose to 46.2% in 2014, equivalent to approximately 55.4 million people6 and 
the level of inequality remains relatively high.7 Improving basic infrastructure and enhancing the quality 
of and access to essential public services are therefore of critical importance.8 For example, enhancing 
the quality and accessibility of Mexico’s fragmented healthcare system is critical to tackling the country’s 
socioeconomic disparities.9 Banobras has contributed to the development of healthcare infrastructure in 
Mexico,  such  as  financing  the  construction  of  a  public  hospital  in  the  city  of  Mérida  in  Yucatán.  The 

 
5 The GCF aims to mobilize finance for climate-related investment in developing countries that contributes to low-emission and climate-

resilient development. 

6 http://www.reuters.com/article/us-mexico-poverty-idUSKCN0PX2B320150723 
7 https://data.oecd.org/inequality/income-inequality.htm 
8 https://www.oecd.org/about/secretary-general/2012%2009_Mexico_Brochure_EN.pdf 
9 https://www.oecd.org/health/health-systems/OECD-Reviews-of-Health-Systems-Mexico-2016-Assessment-and-recommendations-English.pdf 
 

5 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

hospital which will improve access to secondary health services, is eligible for refinancing through the 
sustainability bond proceeds. Increasing access to clean water and sanitation is also an essential part of 
the wider process of poverty reduction and sustainable development. Mexico is the world’s second largest 
bottled water market, and spending on bottled water puts a significant financial burden on many low-
income households that do not have access to clean tap water.10 
 
Other  examples  of  expenditures  mentioned  in  the  framework  include  rural  electrification  and  the 
construction of rural roads and grain silos. In Sustainalytics’ view, such investments have positive impacts 
for rural and/or vulnerable communities by providing them with a more reliable access to income, food 
security and allowing for further economic and social development. Sustainalytics also recognizes that 
some  projects,  notably  those  related  to  the  development  of  new  infrastructure,  might  have  negative 
social and environmental impacts such as removal of biodiversity, displacement of people, noise pollution, 
among others, that should be adequately identified, managed and mitigated.  
 
Sustainalytics has a positive view on the process to ensure that proceeds of social projects are directed to 
vulnerable populations. Definition and identification of eligible target groups are established by a public 
body11 and consider data such as: 12 (i) income per capita, (ii) average education level at household level, 
(iii) access to healthcare services, (iv) access to housing, (v) access to food, etc.  Sustainalytics is of the 
opinion that the targeted nature of the financing, in line with national legislation and data provided by 
public institutions, increases the social benefits of the projects financed by Banobras and the impact of 
the sustainability bonds. 
 
Given the assessment above, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the inclusion of basic infrastructure and 
public services projects in Banobras’ sustainability bond portfolio will address a wide range of sustainable 
development needs and contribute to the reduction of Mexico’s poverty and income inequality rates.  
 
Impact of financing of natural disaster reconstruction efforts 
In  2010,  Banobras  launched  the  Programa  de  Financiamiento  para  la  Reconstrucción  de  Entidades 
Federativas (FONREC), a loan programme that provides funding to state authorities affected by natural 
disasters. This programme allows for a timely financial support to affected regions so that rebuilding of 
infrastructure and provision of public services can resume as soon as possible and bring back stability to 
the lives of affected populations. The financing granted by Banobras for reconstruction and rehabilitation 
after  natural  disasters  is  allocated  in  accordance  with  detailed  guidance  provided  by  the  Mexican 
Government’s  Fund  for  Natural  Disasters  (FONDEN).  Sustainalytics  has  assessed  the  fund’s  rules  and 
definitions  and  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  type  of  investments  allowed  will  be  essential  to  relieve  the 
situation of affected populations and provide essential public services. For example, Banobras authorized 
over USD 145m in emergency loans to states affected by Hurricane Ingrid and Tropical Storm Manuel, 
which  hit  Mexico’s  east  and  west  coasts  simultaneously  in  September  2013  causing  widespread 
infrastructural damage.13 

 
10 https://www.ft.com/content/b24b14cc-f4ee-3b8a-b1b9-56f56972d8c5   
11 The National Council for the Evaluation of Social Development Policy – CONEVAL 
12 Ley General de Desarrolo Social (DOF 01-06-2016), Article 36 
13 http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-latin-america-24098184 

6 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

 
Mexico’s optimal potential for renewable energy and energy efficiency investments  
A number of projects in Banobras’ portfolio relate to renewable energy and energy efficiency investments, 
which are particularly relevant given Mexico’s climate policy. As part of the Paris Agreement, Mexico has 
pledged a 25% reduction in greenhouse gases by 2030 relative to business-as-usual projections. Mexico’s 
Congress also recently passed the Energy Transition Law in December 2015, which aims to transform the 
power sector by mandating a 35% increase in the use of clean energy by 2024.  
 
The IFC estimates that there could be USD 20 billion of potential climate-smart investments in Mexico by 
2020,  most  of  which  are  in  the  wind  sector  that  is  expected  to  provide  a  USD  11  billion  investment 
opportunity.14  As  an  active  participant  in  the  wind  sector  in  recent  years,  Banobras  has  earmarked 
proceeds  to  financing  and  refinancing  seven  wind  farm  projects.  An  example  is  the  financing  of  the 
construction, operation, and administration of the La Bufa wind farm in the Zacatecas municipality, which 
will have a 130MW capacity. Banobras has also included one hydropower project in the eligible portfolio. 
While Mexico’s renewable energy law (LAERFTE) defines hydropower as “renewable” if projects have a 
capacity of less than 30MW, Sustainalytics has verified that the eligible hydropower project is well below 
this  capacity  (8.4MW)  and  well  aligned  with  international  definitions  which  are  more  conservative  in 
setting a maximum threshold of 20-25MW of installed capacity for renewable hydro.  
 
Banobras  may  also  finance  projects  that  generate  renewable  energy  from  biomass  to  promote 
diversification of energy sources. Sustainalytics recognizes the potential negative impacts associated with 
the use of biomass for energy production and has assessed the Law that regulates its use.15 Following an 
assessment of the Law, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that it adequately promotes the use of various 
sources of biomass, while explicitly requiring that it should not “jeopardize the country's environmental 
sustainability and sovereignty of the food chain in accordance with the provisions of articles 178 and 179 
of The Rural Sustainable Development Act”, as well as requiring an evaluation and mitigation of potential 
negative impacts.  
 
Banobras’  inclusion  of  energy  efficiency  projects  will  also  contribute  to  Mexico’s  ambitious  climate 
targets. The bank granted approximately USD 17.3m in financing to 26 municipalities across seven states 
as part of the National Project of Energy Efficiency in Municipal Public Lighting, which seeks to replace 
inefficient public lighting systems. Only municipalities that obtained a technical opinion from the National 
Commission for the Efficient Use of Energy (CONUEE), which verified that upgrades would provide the 
envisaged  energy  savings  while  delivering  adequate  lighting  levels,  were  eligible  for  financing.  
Sustainalytics recognizes that, with respect to investments in energy efficiency, best practice in the green 
bond market is to invest in technologies that ensure a minimum of 20-30% performance improvement in 
energy  efficiency.  Sustainalytics  recommends  that  Banobras  always  strives  to  achieve  that  level  of 
improvement for projects financed with the proceeds of the sustainability bonds. 
 
 

 
14 https://www.ifc.org/wps/wcm/connect/51183b2d-c82e-443e-bb9b-68d9572dd48d/3503-IFC-Climate_Investment_Opportunity-Report-Dec-

FINAL.pdf?MOD=AJPERES 

15 Ley de Promocion y Desarollo de los Bioenergeticos (DOF 01-02-2008), 

http://dof.gob.mx/nota_detalle.php?codigo=5094933&fecha=18/06/2009 

7 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

The need to provide a cleaner mass public transportation system 
While 75% of the population lives in urban areas, Mexico’s urban transport infrastructure is not keeping 
pace with these urbanizing demographic trends. Mexico City’s Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system, Metrobús, 
has  increased  the  number  of  city  residents  taking  public  transportation.  However,  it  is  widely 
acknowledged that Mexico City’s advanced BRT system is not enough to deal with the city’s persistent 
traffic  congestion  and  deteriorating  air  quality.16  These  factors  highlight  the  importance  of  continued 
investment  in  low-emission  transportation  assets  that  are  included  in  Banobras’  portfolio  of  eligible 
projects. An indicative example is the refinancing of Banobras’ investment in 30 new trains for Mexico 
City’s metro system that will transport up to 475,000 passengers daily. Furthermore, Sustainalytics notes 
that while Banobras has included BRT  infrastructure improvements  in its sustainability bond portfolio, 
proceeds  will  finance  infrastructure  that  encourages  the  use  of  public  transportation,  such  as  bus 
terminals,  but  not  the  fossil-fuel  based  bus  vehicles  themselves.  Only  hybrid17  or  electric  vehicles  are 
eligible for financing.  
 
Importance of improving water efficiency and wastewater treatment 
As noted in recent Sustainalytics report on water scarcity, Mexico is part of a growing list of countries that 
are depleting non-replenishable aquifers to meet water demand.18 Furthermore, as water resources are 
spread unevenly across the country, three quarters of the population live in water scarce regions.  The 
impacts of climate change are intensifying the country’s water problems as areas in northern Mexico are 
showing persistent drying trends. 
 
Banobras acknowledges the critical need for water efficiency, water access, and wastewater treatment 
initiatives in Mexico, having included a number of aqueduct and wastewater management projects in the 
sustainability bond portfolio. For example, Banobras featured its Atotonilco wastewater treatment plant 
project  in  its  2016  Annual  Report,  which  is  the  largest  of  its  kind  in  Latin  America.  Spearheaded  by 
Banobras and incorporating private investment, the plant will treat approximately 60% of the residual 
wastewater from the Mexico City metropolitan area. This will provide treated water for the irrigation of 
around 80,000ha in the Tula Valley of Hidalgo, as well as improve the quality of life of the approximately 
300,000 inhabitants in the region that lack access to treated water. 
 
Filling the gaps in Mexico’s solid waste management system 
Mexico lacks comprehensive urban waste collection and processing systems, as well as a formal recycling 
industry.19  Therefore,  Banobras’  decision  to 
in  solid  waste  management 
infrastructure as an eligible use of bond proceeds is highly relevant in the Mexican context. Financing of 
facilities, systems, and equipment that support waste treatment, recycling, the reuse of emissions, and 
the diversion of solid waste from landfills will in particular render significant environmental benefits.  
 

investments 

include 

 
16 http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/science-environment-38840076 
17 Sustainalytics recognizes that hybrid vehicles, despite still being partly dependent on fossil fuels, qualify as a transition solution towards a 
low-carbon economy and can therefore be financed with the proceeds from a green bond. 
18 http://marketing.sustainalytics.com/acton/media/5105/water-scarcity-will-investors-be-left-high-and-
dry?utm_term=Read%20an%20Excerpt%20from%20the%20Report&utm_campaign=Sustainalytics%20Reporter%20%7C%20Summer%202016
&utm_content=landing+page&utm_source=Act-On+Software&utm_medium=landing+page&sid=TV2:JZpbEdOVg 
19 https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2012/jan/09/waste-mountain-mexico-city 

8 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Alignment with the Sustainable Development Goals 
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were set in September 2015 and form an agenda for achieving 
sustainable  development by  the  year 2030.  Sustainalytics  is  confident  that  given  the  eligibility  criteria 
defined  in  the  Banobras  Sustainability  Bond  Framework,  the  selected  projects  will  provide  a  positive 
contribution, in particular to the following SGDs: 
 

Use of Proceeds Category 
2. Public Services 
Infrastructure 

SDG 
1. No Poverty 

3. Disaster Recovery 

1. No Poverty  

2. Public Services 
Infrastructure 

3. Good Health 
and Well-Being 

2. Public Services 
Infrastructure;  
7. Water Efficiency and 
Wastewater Management 
5. Renewable Energy 

8. Pollution Prevention 
and Control 

6. Clean Water 
and Sanitation  

7. Affordable and 
Clean Energy 
12. Responsible 
Consumption and 
Production 

SDG target 
1.4 By 2030, ensure that all men and women, in particular the 
poor and the vulnerable, have equal rights to economic 
resources, as well as access to basic services. 

1.5 By 2030, build the resilience of the poor and those in 
vulnerable situations and reduce their exposure and 
vulnerability to climate-related extreme events and other 
economic, social and environmental shocks and disasters. 
3.8 Achieve universal health coverage, including 
financial risk protection, access to quality essential health-care 
services and access to safe, effective, quality and affordable 
essential medicines and vaccines for all. 
6.1 By 2030, achieve universal and equitable access to 
safe and affordable drinking water for all 

7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable 
energy in the global energy mix. 
12.4 By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound management 
of chemicals and all wastes throughout their life cycle, in 
accordance with agreed international frameworks, and 
significantly reduce their release to air, water and soil in order 
to minimize their adverse impacts on human health and the 
environment. 

 
Reporting on the impact of the financed projects  
As mentioned in Section 1, Banobras will publish yearly (or until full allocation of proceeds) a Sustainability 
Bond Report which will disclose the allocation of proceeds per eligible category and provide examples of 
financed  projects.  Banobras  will  also  strive  to  demonstrate  environmental  and  social  impacts  of  the 
projects  financed,  and  has  identified  several  potential  impact  indicators  in  its  Sustainability  Bond 
Framework (for instance, it will strive to report on the annual renewable energy generation and installed 
capacity  and  volume  of  water  or  wastewater  collected  /  stored  /  treated).  Moreover,  other  public 
agencies regularly publish online reports with detailed insights into the expenditures and impacts of the 
main  federal  programmes  that  Banobras  will  support  through  its  Sustainability  Bond  proceeds.  For 
example: 

•  Report  covering  the  Banobras  FAIS  program  (providing  affordable  basic  infrastructure)  is 
published by the Secretariat of Social Development (SEDESOL) and by the National Council for 
the Evaluation of Social Development Policy (CONEVAL). These entities track and verify annually 

 
 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

the social conditions of the regions benefitted by the investments,20 define the requirements for 
impact evaluation21 and report on the allocation of resources contributed by Banobras.22 

•  Reporting covering the FONDEN program (support natural disaster recovery) is published by the 

Ministry of Finance.23 

•  Program evaluation of the Cruzada Nacional Contra el Hambre (financing for municipalities under 
the  federal  program  against  hunger)  is  being  conducted  by  CONEVAL24  and  initial  impact 
evaluation results were published in August 2015. 

  
 
Conclusion 
Banobras, a state-owned Mexican development bank, intends to issue sustainability bonds to finance or 
refinance,  in  whole  or  in  part,  existing  and  future  projects  that  promote  sustainable  development  in 
Mexico.  The  net  proceeds  of  the  sustainability  bonds  will  be  allocated  towards  the  following  eligible 
categories: (i) Affordable basic infrastructure to vulnerable segments of the population, (ii) Public services 
infrastructure,  (iii)  Disaster  recovery,  (iv)  Sustainable  transport,  (v)  Renewable  energy,  (vi)  Energy 
efficiency, (vii) Water efficiency and wastewater management, and (viii) Pollution prevention and control. 
Given Banobras’ mission to improve the quality of life of local populations by financing projects with high 
social  returns  and  positive  impacts  on  the  environment,  Sustainalytics  considers  that  the  issuance  of 
sustainability  bonds  strongly  aligns  with  the  bank’s  mandate  and  commitments.  Furthermore, 
Sustainalytics considers that proceeds will contribute to promoting sustainable development in Mexico 
and advancing SDGs 1, 3, 6, 7 and 12. Although Sustainalytics is confident that Banobras is well positioned 
to address the environmental and social risks,  Sustainalytics recommends that the issuer  continues to 
perform thorough due diligence to identify and mitigate any potential negative impacts associated with 
the projects (especially those requiring the development of new infrastructure). 
 
Banobras’ eligible projects are evaluated and selected by a dedicated team, and the Bank will engage a 
third party to review the financed projects, ensuring compliance with the eligibility criteria defined in the 
Framework. This is in line with best market practice. Furthermore, Banobras will publish Sustainability 
Bond  Reports,  in  which  it  will  disclose  the  allocation  of  proceeds  per  eligible  category  and  provide 
examples  of  financed  projects.  Banobras  will  also  strive  to  include  information  demonstrating  the 
environmental and social impacts of the projects financed. 
 
Based on the above,  Sustainalytics is confident that Banobras  is well positioned to issue  Sustainability 
Bonds and that the Sustainability Bond Framework is credible and transparent and in alignment with the 
four pillars of ICMA’s Sustainability Bond Guidelines 2017. 

 

 
20 https://www.gob.mx/sedesol/documentos/informe-anual-sobre-la-situacion-de-pobreza-y-rezago-social  
21http://www.sedesol.gob.mx/work/models/SEDESOL/Sedesol/sppe/upri/dgapl/fais/PDFS/Evaluacion/Criterios_y_agenda_de_
evaluacion.pdf 
22 https://www.gob.mx/sedesol/documentos/fondo-de-aportaciones-para-la-infraestructura-social-fais  
23http://finanzaspublicas.hacienda.gob.mx/work/models/Finanzas_Publicas/docs/congreso/infotrim/2017/iit/04afp/itanfp09_
201702.pdf 
24 http://www.coneval.org.mx/Evaluacion/ECNCH/Paginas/Balance_Cruzada_Nacional_contra_el_hambre.aspx 

10 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

APPENDICES 
 
Appendix 1: Examples of Eligible Projects 
 

Eligible Category 

1. Affordable Basic 
Infrastructure 

- 

- 

- 

2. Public Services 
Infrastructure 
3. Disaster Recovery 

4. Sustainable Transport 

- 

5. Renewable Energy 

Example Projects (based on existing Banobras portfolio; actual allocations will be confirmed 
within one year of issuance date)  
- 

Banobras puts forward up to 25% of the resources that marginalized and low-income 
states and municipalities receive from the Fondo de Aportaciones para la Infraestructura 
Social (FAIS). Over Jan 2013-Jun 2017 Banobras has supported 559 municipalities (74% 
designated as medium, high or very high marginalization) with financing for social 
projects: drinking water, sewers, drainage, rural electrification, basic health and education 
infrastructure. 
Banobras also provides financing to municipalities included in the federal programmes 
against hunger and for violence prevention: (Jan 2013-Jun 2017 data) 

o 
o 

Cruzada Nacional contra el Hambre: 188 municipalities supported 
Programa Nacional para la Prevención Social de la Violencia y la Delincuencia: 48 
municipalities supported 

ISSSTE Public Hospital in Merida, Yucatan: In 2016, Banobras financed the design 
construction and operation of this 66-bed hospital that provides free health services 
Banobras finances the reconstruction of public infrastructure damaged by natural 
disasters in line with the laws governing the federal disaster recovery fund (Fondo de 
Desastres Naturales-FONDEN). Recent financing includes: 

o 

o 

o 

Ciudad del Carmen in Campeche: cleanup of roads and reconstruction of 
drainage 
Jalisco: reconstruction of state-owned infrastructure after tropical storm Manuel 
(Sep 2013) 
Los Cabos, La Paz, Loreto, Mulegé in Baja California: reconstruction of damaged 
infrastructure after Hurricane Odile (Sep 2014) 

Sistema de Transporte Colectivo (STC) Mexico City metro: Banobras invested in the 
acquisition of 30 new trains and maintanence projects to ensure that the fleet meets 
overall performance quality standards 

Project 
Wind, General Bravo, Nuevo León – 
operational 
Wind, General Bravo, Nuevo León – 
operational 
Wind, Santo Domingo Ingenio, Oaxaca – 
operational  
Wind, Juchitán de Zaragoza y El Espinal, 
Oaxaca – in construction 
Wind, Zacatecas, Zacatecas – in 
construction 
Wind, Santo Domingo Ingenio, Oaxaca - 
operational 
Wind, Juchitán de Zaragoza y El Espinal, 
Oaxaca – in construction 
Mini hydro, Mascota, Jalisco – operational  

Annual Generation (GWh) 

Capacity (MW) 

622.0 

621.0 

600.0 

598.0 

409.6 

340.0 

1,552.0 

47.5 

126 

126 

160 

164 

130 

102 

396 

8.4 

6. Energy Efficiency 

 

- 

National Project for Energy Efficiency in Municipal Public Lighting: Banobras has financed 
technology updgrades for public/street lighting in 26 municipalities. Financing is only 

 
 

11 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

7. Water Efficiency and 
Wastewater 
Management 

awarded to projects that are verified by the National Commission for Energy Efficiency 
(CONUEE) in terms of technology, light quality, energy efficiency and cost savings. E.g. 

o 

Coneto de Comonfort, Durango: Financing for substitution of 348 lights with LED 
bulbs, resulting in 42.7% reduction in municipal energy bill. 

o  Motul, Yucatán: Financing for substitution of 3,077 lights with LED bulbs, 

resulting in 36.7% reduction in municipal energy bill. 

Project 
Water treatment plant, Tlajomulco de Zúñiga, Jalisco - 
operational 
Water treatment plant, Atotonilco de Tula, Hidalgo - in 
construction  
Water treatment plant, Zapopan, Jalisco - operational 
Aquaduct, Santiago de Querétaro, Querétaro – 
operational  
Aquaduct, Santa María del Río, San Luis Potosí – 
operational  
Aquaduct, Los Altos de Jalisco - León, Guanajuato – in 
construction 

Water treated/distributed m3/sec 

2.25 

35 

8.5 
1.0 

1.5 

3.8 

8. Pollution Prevention 
and Control 

 

- 

Solid waste management projects for collection of non-hazardous wastes and sanitation, 
and closure of open dumps. 

 

12 

 
 
 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 
 

 

 

 
 

19 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics  is  an  independent  ESG  and  corporate  governance  research,  ratings  and  analysis  firm 
supporting  investors  around  the  world  with  the  development  and  implementation  of  responsible 
investment  strategies. With 13 offices globally, Sustainalytics partners with institutional investors who 
integrate  environmental,  social  and  governance  information  and  assessments  into  their  investment 
processes.  Today,  the  firm  has  more  than  300  staff  members,  including  170  analysts  with  varied 
multidisciplinary  expertise  of  more  than  40  sectors.  Through  the  IRRI  survey,  investors  selected 
Sustainalytics as the best independent responsible investment research firm for three consecutive years, 
2012 through 2014 and in 2015, Sustainalytics was named among the top three firms for both ESG and 
Corporate Governance research. The firm was also named the Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
Global Capital in 2015. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com  
 
Sustainalytics 
info@sustainalytics.com  
www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 

20 

