BANCO NACIONAL DE 
DESENVOLVIMENTO 

ECONÔMICO E  
SOCIAL – BNDES 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

April 20th, 2017 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 

Trisha Taneja (Toronto, ON) 

Charlotte Peyraud (New York)  

Senior Advisor, Institutional Relations 

charlotte.peyraud@sustainalytics.com 

(+1) 646 518 0184 

Advisor, Advisory Services 
trisha.taneja@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 647 317 3695 
 
 
 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

1. 

Introduction 

2.  Overview of Issuer 

3.  Framework overview 
3.1  Use of Proceeds 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
3.3  Management of Proceeds 
3.4  Reporting 

4  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 

Section 1: Sustainability Performance of the Issuer 
Section 2: Impact of Use of Proceeds 
Conclusion 

APPENDICES 

Appendix 1: Examples of eligible projects 
Appendix 2: BNDES Categories for Classification of Environmental and Social Risks 
Appendix 3: Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

1 

3 

3 

4 
4 
4 
4 
5 

6 
6 
8 
9 

10 
10 
10 
11 

17 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

1. INTRODUCTION 
 
Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social – BNDES (BNDES), Brazil’s development bank, 
has developed a green bond framework under which it is considering to issue a green bond (BNDES Green 
Bond) and use the proceeds to finance and refinance expenditures related to new and existing renewable 
energy projects in wind and solar energy power. Sustainalytics has been engaged to provide a Second 
Party Opinion (SPO) on its framework. As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with 
various members of BNDES’ management team to understand the planned use of proceeds for the BNDES 
Green Bond framework, and the framework’s transparency. Sustainalytics also reviewed relevant public 
and  internal  documents.  This  document  contains  two  sections:  Framework  Overview  –  summary  of 
BNDES’ Green Bond Framework; and Sustainalytics’ Opinion – an opinion on the framework. 
 
 
2. OVERVIEW OF ISSUER 
 
BNDES  is  a  wholly  owned  federal  government  company  supervised  by  Brazil’s  Ministry  of  Planning, 
Development and Management. It provides long-term financing primarily in Brazil. BNDES’s Social and 
Environmental Responsibility Policy1 sets principles and guidelines that cover all of BNDES’s activities. In 
its Socio-environmental Policy2 BNDES commits to promoting eco-efficiency, the adoption of sustainable, 
social and environmental processes and products, and the reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. 
In line with these policies, BNDES commits to: 
 

o  advocating for and investing in projects which integrate economic, social and environmental 

benefits; 
respecting and promoting human rights; 

o 
o  managing stakeholder relationships in an ethical and transparent way;  
o  observing international best practice. 

 
BNDES’ social and environmental policies complement the company’s Mission, Vision and Values3 
statement, which states a commitment to promoting Brazil’s sustainable development. To further this 
objective, BNDES is planning to issue green notes to finance renewable energy projects in Brazil.  
 
 

 
1 BNDES Social and Environmental Responsibility Policy, accessed April 4, 2017; 
http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_en/Institucional/Social_and_Environmental_Responsibility/social_environmental_resp
onsibility_policy.html  
2 BNDES Socioenvironmental Policy, accessed April 4, 2017; 
http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_en/Institucional/Social_and_Environmental_Responsibility/socioenvironmental_policy
/  
3 BNDES Mission, Vision and Values, accessed April 4, 2017; ; http://www.bndes.gov.br/wps/portal/site/home/quem-somos/governanca-
controle/planejamento-corporativo/missao%2C-visao-e-valores  

3 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

3. FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 
For the purpose of issuing green notes, BNDES has developed the following framework, which aims to 
align  with  the  four  key  pillars  of  the  Green  Bond  Principles  (GBP):  use  of  proceeds,  project  selection 
process, management of proceeds, and reporting. 
 
3.1   Use of Proceeds 
An amount equal to the net proceeds of the Notes (“Net Proceeds”) under the BNDES Green Bond  will 
be allocated towards financing or refinancing new and existing renewable energy projects that meet the 
following eligibility criterion: 
 

  Expenditures  related  to  the  development,  construction,  or  expansion  of  facilities  for  new  and 
existing solar and wind projects that (i) have had a disbursement made during the twenty-four 
months preceding the issue date of the Notes or (ii) will be financed following the issue date of 
the Notes and before the maturity date of the Notes.  
 

 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
BNDES’s Board of Executive Officers will approve a list of specific types of projects that meet the eligibility 
criterion, and that are expected to be funded out of the Net Proceeds. BNDES may change projects and 
find a substitute project that meets the eligibility criterion. If there is a need to replace a pending project 
on the list of eligible projects, any new projects that meet the eligibility criterion must be approved jointly 
by the Superintendents of the Energy Division, Public and Socio-environmental Management Division, and 
Financial and International Division. 
 
Additionally, BNDES guidelines require that all granting of financial support be subject to evaluation of 
financial aspects as well as environmental and social aspects. BNDES has established an environmental 
risk management system to comply with Brazilian federal and state legal and regulatory requirements. In 
particular, borrowers must demonstrate compliance with Brazilian federal and relevant state legislation 
and environmental licensing, which entails three separate stages: pre-licensing, implementation licensing, 
and operational licensing. BNDES requires that licensing,  duly  issued by the competent environmental 
authority, be presented.  
 
 

3.3        Management of Proceeds  
Prior to the allocation to eligible green projects, the Net Proceeds will be tracked by BNDES and will be 
held in cash, cash equivalents or Brazilian government securities. Payment of principal and interest on the 
Notes will be made from BNDES’ general resource and will not be linked to the performance of the eligible 
green projects. The Energy Division will be responsible for the monitoring process of the Eligible Green 
Projects. The tracking of the allocation of the net proceeds of the Notes will be managed by the Financial 
and International Division. 
 

 
 

4 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

BNDES has an internal system for tracking green funding secured for environmentally impactful initiatives. 
Proceeds from the Notes will be tagged in internal systems by the source of financing, and will be labelled 
as ‘green bond financing’, to be used only for eligible projects.  
 
3.4    Reporting  
During the term of the Notes, BNDES will make and keep readily available, on its website, information on 
the  allocation  of  the  Net  Proceeds,  to  be  updated  annually  until  full  allocation.  This  information  will 
include: 
 

  Amounts allocated to eligible green projects and brief descriptions of the projects; 
  Where feasible, relevant estimated impact metrics related to the eligble projects, including:  

o  Net annual production of renewable energy in GWh; 
o  Tonnes of CO2 equivalent avoided. 

 
This reporting will include an assurance by BNDES auditors as to the allocation of the Net Proceeds to 
eligible  projects  after  checking  the  tracking  and  monitoring  process  used  by  the  Financial  and 
International Division within the allocating process. 
 

 

 

 

 
 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

4  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
 
Section 1: Sustainability Performance of the Issuer 
 
Contribution of proceeds to issuer sustainability strategy 
On its website, BNDES states that a large part of its mandate is to promote sustainable development in 
Brazil  by  proactively  integrating  economic,  social  and  environmental  considerations  in  the  financial 
services it extends to Brazilian private and public sector entities.4 In this context, BNDES considers itself 
to be one of the financial agents engaged in facilitating the achievement of Brazilian Intended Nationally 
Determined  Contributions  (INDCs),  including  the  objectives  to  (i)  achieve  45%  of  renewables  in  the 
national energy mix by 2030, and (ii) expand use of renewable energy sources other than hydropower.5  
 
In keeping with this mandate, BNDES has disclosed to Sustainalytics that, between 2003 and 2016, the 
bank  approved  87  credits  corresponding  to  an  amout  of  R$28.5  billion  in  credit6  for  wind  power 
generation projects. In terms of installed capacity, wind power received the most BNDES funding  with 
10,761 MW in the reported period. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that this demonstrates a track record 
of contributing to the organization’s mandate, and to Brazil’s renewable energy goals.   
 
Overall,  in  Sustainalytics’  opinion  the  BNDES  notes  issued  under  this  framework,  furthers  BNDES’ 
mandate,  and  contributes  to  growing  the  renewable  energy  sector  in  Brazil  in  alignment  with  the 
country’s international obligations.  
 
Well positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated with the projects 
Sustainalytics  recognizes  that  BNDES  has  been  criticized  in  the  past  for  financing  renewable  energy 
projects  with negative environmental and social impacts, especially with respect  to great hydropower 
plants. In particular, BNDES has a controversy with respect to the Belo Monte dam project, financed by 
BNDES  in  November  2012.  The  hydropower  project  was  criticized  for  displacing  people,  threatening 
fragile ecosystems as well as the livelihoods of local farmers, fishermen, and indigenous communities.7 
BNDES  has  noted  to  Sustainalytics  that  it  compensated  for  the  impacts  described  above  by  offering 
resettlements, and investing in sanitation and social infrastructure aimed at indigenous people.  
 
Sustainalytics notes that such risks of threatening biodiversity and displacing people are common to large-
scale  hydropower  projects.  The  proceeds  of  the  BNDES  Green  Bond  will  not  fund  such  large-scale 
hydropower projects.  
 
It should be noted that there are also environmental and social risks of a much lower nature associated 
with  wind  and  solar  projects.  Examples  of  such  risks  include  depletion  of  habitats,  and  poor  working 
 
4 The BNDES, accessed April 18, 2017 from http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_en/Institucional/The_BNDES/  
5 http://www4.unfccc.int/submissions/INDC/Published%20Documents/Brazil/1/BRAZIL%20iNDC%20english%20FINAL.pdf  
6 BNDES confirmation to Sustainalytics. 
7 Sustainalytics’ ESG research assesses BNDES to have a “Category 3” controversy level 3 (significant) with respect to the Belo Monte dam 
project, financed by BNDES in November 2012 . Source: Sustainalytics ESG Research, retrieved on April 18, 2017 from 
https://globalaccess.sustainalytics.com) 

6 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

conditions of labourers. With respect to mitigating risks common to projects funded by notes proceeds, 
Sustainalytics has assessed BNDES’ policies and internal risk mitigation governance processes; details of 
the assessment are provided below.  
 
Policies 
Sustainalytics has reviewed BNDES’ Socioenvironmental Policy8 as well as its Social and Environmental 
Responsibility Policy.9 Both policies  explicitly refer to respecting human rights. The Socieoenvironmental 
Policy also contains guidelines for the organization to monitor and assess environmental and social (E&S) 
impacts of BNDES’ operations, its partners, suppliers, and other organizations receiving financial support 
from BNDES. The Socioenvironmental Policy also includes a specific guideline to undertake risk analysis 
of beneficiaries  and projects,  and to consider E&S risks  as a strategic issue while  considering financial 
support. Additionally, since 2014, BNDES has a sustainability committee for continuously assessing and 
developing BNDES’s social-environmental guidelines. 
 
Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  these  policies,  and  the  existence  of  a  dedicated  sustainability 
committee demonstrate an organizational commitment  to mitigating E&S risks of projects that BNDES 
finances. 
 
Governance and Process 
BNDES’ commitments are reflected in an internal process to identify, screen, and mitigate E&S risks. Using 
this  process,  BNDES  classifies  all  funded  projects  into  three  impact  categories  based  on  their  socio-
environmental impact- A, B, C, where Category A carries the highest E&S risk. See Appendix 2 for a full 
description of the categories. 
 
Prior  to  financing  a  project,  BNDES  identifies  specific  E&S  risks,  and  beneficiaries  are  expected  to 
demonstrate an E&S risk mitigation plan to BNDES. BNDES also requires that all borrowers demonstrate 
compliance  with  the  applicable  federal  and  state  legislation  and environmental  licensing.  Before  each 
disbursement, BNDES confirms if the environmental licenses are valid. After the last disbursement, the 
borrower has six months to present the operational license of the project. 
 
In addition, after BNDES’s assessment of the environmental and social risks of the Project, if BNDES deems 
necessary (such as in the case of high-risk projects), it may require that beneficiaries obtain verification 
from a qualified third-party. Such a verification demonstrates to BNDES that E&S risks are being mitigated 
by the beneficiary as agreed upon. 
 
 
 
 
 

 
8 BNDES Socioenvironmental Policy, accessed April 18, 2017 from: 
http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_en/Institucional/Social_and_Environmental_Responsibility/socioenvironmental_policy/ 
9 BNDES Social and Environemntal Responsibility Policy, accessed April 18, 2017 from: 
http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_en/Institucional/Social_and_Environmental_Responsibility/social_environmental_responsi
bility_policy.html 

7 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Sustainalytics is of the opinion that BNDES’ project risk assessment process has a number of strengths: 
(i)  BNDES systematically considers environmental and social risks for each project in the funding 

phase; 

(ii)  Projects are categorized by risk level (A, B, C); high-risk projects may be subject to third-party 

monitoring and verification; 

(iii) BNDES requires that certain minimum environmental and social standards be met before 

signing a project finance contract. 
 

BNDES can further strengthen this process by subjecting all categories of projects (A, B, C) to monitoring 
and third-party verification, and by having mechanisms to enforce compliance by the beneficiaries.  
 
Overall,  in  Sustainalytics’  opinion,  BNDES  is  well  positioned  to  mitigate  E&S  risks  relevant  to  eligible 
projects, based on its organizational commitment and strong E&S risk mitigation process.  
 
 
Section 2: Impact of Use of Proceeds 
 
Importance of Renewable Energy in Brazil 
According to International Finance Corporation (IFC) analysis, Brazil has the largest power market in Latin 
America and the country’s size, resources and proactive policies have made it the main renewable energy 
market in the region and one of the top ten in the world.10 The Notes issue by BNDES would capitalize on 
the climate-smart investment potential in Brazil, estimated at $1.3 trillion (IFC data), as well as contribute 
to Brazil’s ten-year Energy Expansion Plan11.  
 
Furthermore, the Notes contribute to the reduction of GHG emissions from energy generation. Brazil has 
pledged an Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC) with an emissions target of 1.3 GtCO2e 
by 2025 and 1.2 GtCO2e by 2030, equivalent to 37% and 43% below 2005 emissions levels.12 Increasing 
the share of renewables in the country’s primary energy mix would help reach this goal. 
 
The Notes issued by BNDES will support the development of solar and wind renewable energy sources in 
Brazil.  
 
Advancement of U.N. Sustainable Development Goals 
From an international development  agenda perspective, BNDES’ bond issue  contributes to the  United 
Nations  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDG),  specifically  to  SDG  7  target  2:  “By  2030,  increase 
substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix”. Renewable energy provides viable 

 
10 “Climate Investment Opportunities in Emerging Markets – An IFC Analysis”, accessed April 4, 2017 from: 
http://www.ifc.org/wps/wcm/connect/51183b2d-c82e-443e-bb9b-68d9572dd48d/3503-IFC-Climate_Investment_Opportunity-Report-FINAL-
11_6_16.pdf?MOD=AJPERES 
11 Brazil 10 Year National Energy Expansion Plan, accessed April 18, 2017 from: http://www.epe.gov.br/PDEE/Forms/EPEEstudo.aspx 
12 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC): Government of Brazil INDC, accessed April 18, 2017 from: 
http://www4.unfccc.int/submissions/INDC/Published%20Documents/Brazil/1/BRAZIL%20iNDC%20english%20FINAL.pdf 

 
 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

and cost-effective options for  expanding access  to the  energy poor, particularly for those  in rural and 
remote  areas.  It  helps  reduce  dependence  on  imported  fuels  and  vulnerability  to  fossil  fuel  price 
fluctuations. It also contributes to improving local air quality and reduces the energy sector’s dependence 
on water for energy extraction and production, thus reducing conflicts with agriculture and other end-
uses.13 
 
Social Impact of Projects 
Furthermore, BNDES’ green bond issue supports BNDES’s social mandate to contribute to job creation 
and income generation.14 Global renewable energy employment increased by 5% in 2015 to reach 8.1 
million,  and  it  continues  to  rise,  according  to  data  by  the  International  Renewable  Energy  Agency 
(IRENA).15 IRENA’s data show that Brazil is one of the countries with the highest number of renewable 
energy jobs.16 
 
Alignment with Green Bond Principles 2016: Sustainalytics has determined that the BNDES Green Notes 
align  with  the  four  pillars of the  Green  Bond Principles  2016.  For  detailed  information  please  refer to 
Appendix 3: Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form. 
 
 
Conclusion 
BNDES’  green  bond  framework  is  transparent  and  provides  clarity  regarding  use  of  proceeds  and 
outcomes of the green bond investments. Renewable energy is recognized by the GBP as an eligible green 
project category, offering clear environmental benefits. In the context of Brazil’s renewable energy goals, 
BNDES’ lending to solar and wind projects contributes to an important national priority and the country’s 
transition to a low-carbon economy. Overall, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the BNDES green bond 
framework is credible and robust.  

 

 
13 UNDP Support to the Implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals, accessed April 5, 2017; 
http://www.undp.org/content/undp/en/home/librarypage/sustainable-development-goals/undp-support-to-the-implementation-of-the-2030-
agenda/ 
14 BNDES: Support for Social and Environmental Projects; accessed April 10, 2017; 
http://www.bndes.gov.br/SiteBNDES/bndes/bndes_en/Institucional/Social_and_Environmental_Responsibility/support_for_social_environme
ntal_projects.html 
15 International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA) Renewable Energy and Jobs - Annual Review 2016; 
http://seforall.org/sites/default/files/IRENA_RE_Jobs_Annual_Review_2016.pdf 
16 International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA) Renewable Energy and Jobs - Annual Review 2016; 
http://seforall.org/sites/default/files/IRENA_RE_Jobs_Annual_Review_2016.pdf 

9 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

APPENDICES 
 
Appendix 1: Examples of eligible projects 
 

Project Name 

Eligibility Criteria 

Installed Capacity (MW) 

São Clemente 

Rio energy 1 (Itarema) 

Chapada II 

Wind 

Wind 

Wind 

216.10 

207.00 

172.40 

 
 
Appendix 2: BNDES Categories for Classification of Environmental and Social 
Risks 
 

Risk of Adverse Impact 

impacts, 

involving 

Characterized  by  risks  directly  related  to  significant  adverse  social  and 
environmental 
large  greenfield  developments  or 
enterprises in critical sectors or sensitive locations that generally require 
more complex environmental studies. These are acharacterized by sector, 
project type, and location in accordance with the criteria set out in Annex 
1 to the Socioenvironmental Policy.  
Characterized by reasonable socioenvironmental risks and those related to 
local effects, involving the expansion or extension of enterprises that are 
of limited social and environmental impacts, in a way that only some of 
their  impacts  are  irreversible  or  involve  easily  identifiable  mitigating 
measures,  possible  including  enterprises  whose  sector or  characteristics 
are referred to in Annex 1 of the Socioenvironmental Policy. 
Characterized  by  minimal  or  non-existent  environmental  risks.  Usually 
encompassing  financial  operations  regarding  the  exportation  of  goods, 
including aircrafts.  

Environmental 
Category 
A 

B 

C 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

10 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 
 

 

 

 
 

16 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics  is  an  independent  ESG  and  corporate  governance  research,  ratings  and  analysis  firm 
supporting  investors  around  the  world  with  the  development  and  implementation  of  responsible 
investment  strategies. With 13 offices globally, Sustainalytics partners with institutional investors who 
integrate  environmental,  social  and  governance  information  and  assessments  into  their  investment 
processes.  Today,  the  firm  has  more  than  300  staff  members,  including  170  analysts  with  varied 
multidisciplinary  expertise  of  more  than  40  sectors.  Through  the  IRRI  survey,  investors  selected 
Sustainalytics as the best independent responsible investment research firm for three consecutive years, 
2012 through 2014 and in 2015, Sustainalytics was named among the top three firms for both ESG and 
Corporate Governance research. The firm was also named the Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
Global Capital in 2015. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com  
 
Sustainalytics 
info@sustainalytics.com  
www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 

17 

