 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

BNG BANK  

SUSTAINABILITY BOND 2016 

 

 

 

 
 
 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

November 14th, 2016 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 

Catarina da Silva (Amsterdam) 

Trisha Taneja (Toronto) 

Senior Advisor, Advisory Services 
catarina.dasilva@sustainalytics.com 
(+31) 20 205 00 45 

Advisor, Advisory Services 
trisha.taneja@sustainalytics.com 
(+1 ) 647 317 3695 

 
 

 
 

Vikram Puppala  

Vikram Puppala  

© Sustainalytics 2016 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

1.  preface 

2. 

Introduction 

3.  Framework overview 
3.1  Use of Proceeds 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
3.3  Management of Proceeds 
3.4  Reporting 

4  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 

Conclusion 

APPENDICES 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

1 

3 

3 

4 
4 
6 
6 
6 

8 
10 

11 

20 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

1. PREFACE 
 
N.V. Bank Nederlandse Gemeenten (BNG Bank), a Dutch bank for the public sector, intends to issue a 
Sustainability Bond to promote the bank’s investment in ‘best in class’ sustainable municipalities in The 
Netherlands  based  on  a  Sustainability  Monitor  Methodology  developed  by  TSC-Telos1.  BNG  Bank  has 
engaged Sustainalytics to provide a second opinion on its 2016 Sustainability Bond framework and on the 
bond’s  sustainability  credentials.  As  a  part  of  this  engagement,  Sustainalytics  held  conversations  with 
members of BNG Bank’s management team to clarify aspects of its Sustainability Bond framework related 
to  the  use of proceeds, management  of  proceeds and reporting. Sustainalytics also reviewed relevant 
public  and  internal  documents,  including  the  TSC-Telos  Sustainability  Monitor  Methodology,  which 
determined the eligibility criteria for the bond proceeds.  
This document contains two sections:  

  Framework  Overview  -  a  summary  of  the  BNG  Bank  Sustainability  Bond  2016  framework, 

developed by TSC-Telos, the Sustainability Center of Tilburg University; and  

  Sustainalytics’ Opinion - an opinion on the framework. 

 
 
2. INTRODUCTION 
 
BNG Bank is the bank of and for local authorities and public sector institutions in the Netherlands. Half of 
the bank’s share capital is held by the Dutch State and the other half by municipalities, provinces and a 
district water board. BNG Bank’s clients primarily comprise local authorities and public sector institutions 
in the area of housing, healthcare, education and public utilities. BNG Bank provides customized financial 
services,  ranging from loans and advances, consultancy, payment services, electronic banking to asset 
management. BNG Bank’s specialized financial services help to minimize the cost of social provisions to 
the public. In this regard, the bank plays an essential role in the public sector. 
 
The  2016  Sustainability  Bond  aims  to  promote  BNG  Bank’s  investment  in  ‘best  in  class’  sustainable 
municipalities in The Netherlands. The bank uses a methodology developed by the Tilburg Sustainability 
Center  of  Tilburg  University  (TSC-Telos)  for  ranking  municipalities  based  on  their  sustainability 
performance.  By issuing this bond BNG Bank aims to:  

(i) 
(ii) 

(iii) 

Highlight the importance of sustainable development to municipalities, 
Provide relevant information to investors who want to see their capital used for investments 
in municipalities that have experience in improving sustainability, and 
Increase awareness of successful strategies used in high scoring municipalities. 

 
These objectives align with the bank’s Sustainability Policy2 and strategy in which BNG Bank commits to 
provide financing to sustainable projects with a desirable positive impact on society, targeting long-term 
business activities that create value for the market, people and environment.  

 
1  www.telos.nl (in Dutch with English summary); Bastiaan Zoeteman, Pieter Tordoir, Rens Mulder, Ruben Smeets, Corné Wentink, John 
Dagevos, National Monitor Sustainable Municipalities 2016, A Step Forward!, Tilburg: Telos, Tilburg University, Document Nr 16.147. 
2 MVO-Beleid BNG Bank 2015 

 

 

3 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

 
In its Sustainability Policy, BNG Bank defines sustainable projects as those that contribute to a) reducing 
energy  use  and  CO2  emissions;  b)  support  sustainable  mobility  and  transport,  including  improving  air 
quality;  and  c)  support  real  estate  projects  that  implement  recyclable  and  reusable  materials  or  build 
according to life-cycle approaches. In line with this investment approach, BNG Bank has been financing 
socially relevant initiatives in The Netherlands such as the Energy Agreement for Sustainable Growth3 and 
Social housing.  
 
The partnership between BNG Bank and TSC-Telos started in 2014 when the bank asked the institute to 
describe the sustainability criteria and selection process of ‘best-in-class’ Dutch municipalities eligible for 
a BNG Bank Sustainability bond. In October 2014, BNG Bank launched its inaugural Sustainability Bond, a 
EUR 500 million, 5-year benchmark (2014-2019). Since then, TCS-Telos provides a yearly update on eligible 
Dutch municipalities, using the methodology applied in its annual Dutch National Monitor of Sustainable 
Municipalities. The 2016 Sustainability Bond is the third issuance of this kind by BNG-Bank.  
 
3. FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 
For  this  Sustainability  Bond  issued  by  BNG  Bank,  a  framework  has  been  created  that  follows  the 
International Capital Market Association (ICMA)’s Green Bond Principles (GBP). 
  
3.1   Use of Proceeds 
 
3.1.1  Eligibility Criteria: The TSC-Telos Sustainability Monitor Methodology 
 
The Sustainability Bond 2016 proceeds will be  used by BNG Bank to lend to  ‘best-in-class’ sustainable 
municipalities in the Netherlands, as identified by the 2016 Telos  Sustainability Monitor Methodology. 
The proceeds of this bond are for the general purpose use of the eligible sustainable municipalities. 
  
The  eligible  municipalities  will  be  defined  as  the  15  top-performing  municipalities  within  each  of  the 
fourteen categories defined by Telos. These categories group municipalities based on their size and social 
and geographical characteristics (‘municipality classes’).  
 
The TSC-Telos Sustainability Monitor Methodology  
Since 2014, TSC-Telos has published a National Monitor for Sustainable Municipalities based on a wide 
range of sustainability criteria at the request of the Dutch Ministry of Infrastructure and Environment. 
This  rating  compares  municipalities  based  on  their  sustainability  performance  and  is  aligned  with  a 
European initiative known as the European Reference Framework for Sustainable Cities (EU RFSC)4, which 
applies a “triple P” approach, based on three pillars: People, Planet and Profit. This National Monitor is 
 
3 In the Energy Agreement for Sustainable Growth [Energieakkoord voor duurzame groei], more than forty organisations have laid the basis for 
a robust, future-proof energy and climate policy enjoying broad support. This agreement is a collective effort that strives to achieve a reduction 
in final energy consumption (100 petajoule by 2020), increase renewable enery generation (from 4.4% in 2013 to 14% in 2020) and create jobs. 
For thurther details please consult www.ser.nl.  
4 The EU RFSC is a voluntary web tool that can help individual cities to organize their sustainability strategy and its implementation by applying 
the monitor tool. RFSC does not prescribe any specific indicators or sustainability goals. The disadvantage of this element is that cities cannot 
be compared to one another.  

 

 

4 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

updated annually and includes a framework and data that provide a useful source for the requirements 
of BNG Bank in defining the eligibility criteria for its Sustainability Bond.  
 
The  TSC-Telos  Methodology  for  calculating  the  sustainability  performance  of  Dutch  municipalities 
incorporates  three  “Capitals” that  are  aligned with  the  RFSC’s  pillars:  Ecological  Capital,  Socio-cultural 
Capital and Economic Capital. Each of these Capitals has corresponding themes and indicators used for 
quantitative monitoring. The table below provides an example of the Capitals and themes covered: 
 
Table 1: Examples of themes analysed in the three capitals 

Capitals 
Ecological Capital 
Socio-cultural Capital 
Economic Capital 

Example of themes analysed 
Water, Energy and Climate, Resources and Waste 
Health, Safety, Education 
Labor, Competitiveness, Infrastructure and Mobility 

 
In total, the framework monitors and rates municipalities based on the three Capitals, covering 19 themes 
and 105 scientific indicators5 for which quantitative data are available from reliable public sources. The 
data for these indicators will be collected from the Dutch Central Bureau of Statistics, the Netherlands 
Environmental Assessment Agency and the Netherlands Institute for Social Research. 
 
The scoring system 
Each  theme,  and  subsequently  each  indicator  is  scored  on  a  range  from  0-100%,  taking  into  account 
sustainability  requirements  that  TSC-Telos  formulated  as  goals  for  each  indicator  (i.e.  %  of  goal 
achievement).  The  sustainability  goals  are  derived  by  TSC-Telos  from  EU  and national  regulations  and 
experiences  with  municipal  practices.  The  achievement  percentages  are  subsequently  combined  per 
theme resulting in a theme achievement percentage. The average theme scores are subsequently added 
to calculate the average score for a sustainability Capital. Finally, the average score of the total of the 
three Capitals is calculated as the overall sustainability score of a municipality. 
 
For each municipality in The Netherlands an overall sustainability score is calculated, varying between 0-
100% (in practice between 39-58% in 2016) achievement of the integrated sustainability goals.  
 
2016 Methodology adjustments 
TSC-Telos developed similar frameworks in 2014 and 2015 for BNG Bank, using the methodology applied 
in its annual Dutch National Monitor of Sustainable Municipalities. For the BNG Bank Sustainability Bond 
of 2016,  TSC-Telos  revised its  framework  to reflect  recent chance to the  methodology of the National 
Monitor, published 26 September 20166, and its outcome. In comparison to 2015, changes had to be made 
in (i) the number of indicators, a decrease  from 107 to 105 indicators in 2016 reflecting the  available 
information that could be reliably collected, and (ii) the number of Dutch municipalities decreased from 
393 in 2015 to 390 in 2016, reflecting merges between small municipalities. The number of municipality 
types was not changed.  
 
 
5 Please refer to Appendix 2 for a description of the Capitals, Themes and Indicators used in 2016.  
6 www.telos.nl (in Dutch with English summary); Bastiaan Zoeteman, Pieter Tordoir, Rens Mulder, Ruben Smeets, Corné Wentink, John 
Dagevos, National Monitor Sustainable Municipalities 2016, A Step Forward!, Tilburg: Telos, Tilburg University, Document Nr 16.147.  

 

 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
 
The bond proceeds will be disbursed to the National Monitor 2016 ‘best-in-class’ municipalities, which is 
based on a compilation of the top rated 15 sustainable municipalities from each of the fourteen groups 
under  which  Telos  has  grouped  Dutch  municipalities  to  reflect  changes  in  characteristics  (‘municipal 
classes’7). Telos has identified eligible municipalities in a “List of Elected Sustainable Municipalities for the 
2016 BNG Sustainability Bond”.  
 
In 2016, the list includes 107 eligible municipalities out of a total of 390 municipalities. In principle, this 
list should include 14x15=210 municipalities. However, several municipalities qualify for more than one 
municipality type. When this is taken into account, a final list of 107 Elected Sustainable Municipalities 
results.  This  selection  represents  27.4%  of  the  total  number  of  Dutch  municipalities.  This  is  a  slight 
increase in comparison to 2015. For the 2015 Sustainability Bond, 97 out of 393 municipalities (24.6%) 
were eligible. 
 
All 107 municipalities score 50% or higher on sustainability.  
 
 

 

3.3        Management of Proceeds  

 
The loans to which the proceeds will be allocated will be earmarked separately by tagging them with the 
ISIN code of the relevant BNG Bank Sustainability Bond. This ISIN code will facilitate easy identification of 
the loans that qualify based on the eligibility criteria. BNG Bank will not allocate bond proceeds to any 
other type of temporary investments.  
 
 
3.4    Reporting  
 
Allocation Reporting 
BNG Bank has committed to reporting on allocation of proceeds to eligible municipalities on a project 
portfolio basis. BNG Bank has disclosed that the loans to which the bond proceeds will be allocated will 
be  subject  to  internal  and  external  auditing  by  PWC,  to  confirm  alignment  with  eligibility  criteria. 
Additionally, BNG Bank will also provide an annual performance report on its website. 
 
Impact Reporting 
TSC-Telos will prepare annually for BNG Bank an Impact Report to investors. This report will give an update 
on the sustainability scores of the 107 Elected Municipalities for the 2016 BNG Bank Sustainability Bond 
showing: 

 
7 The Dutch National Monitor of Sustainable Municipalities 2016 categorizes fourteen types of municipalities to reflect ‘quantitative’ city types, 
related to the number of inhabitants, and ‘qualitative’ city types related to specific clusters of social, historical and geographical characteristics. 
 

 

 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

  performance of the group of Elected Municipalities compared to the previous year(s); 
  a list of ‘Elected Municipalities’ showing the largest improvement or reduction in overall score 

and an indication of the main causes for these results; 

  performance of the group of Elected Municipalities in comparison with the total group of Dutch 

Municipalities; 

  more detailed performance reporting on changes for the group of Elected Municipalities at the 
level of the three capitals, selected themes and selected impact indicators of interest (e.g. CO2 
emissions in Kton for elected municipalities). 

 
The Second Performance Report of the BNG Bank Sustainability Bond covering the years 2014-2016 was 
published in September 20168 and is available on BNG Bank’s website.  
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
8 Second Performance Report (2014-2016) of Elected Dutch Sustainable Municipalities of the BNG Bank Sustainability Bond of October 2014, 
available via: https://www.bngbank.nl/Documents/Investors/Second_Performance_Report_2014_Sustainability_bond_Telos.pdf 
 

 

 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

4  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
 
BNG Bank’s approach: an incentive for municipalities to improve sustainability performance 
BNG  Bank’s  approach  to  provide  investment  to  ‘best  in  class’  sustainable  municipalities  in  The 
Netherlands is an innovative method that provides incentives for municipalities to better understand and 
improve their performance per sustainability capital. This is confirmed by the Second Performance Report 
of Elected Dutch Municipalities of BNG Bank Sustainability Bond. According to the Report, in the period 
2014-2016 Dutch cities have made a step forward on the road to sustainability: 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

The  average  ecological  capital  score of the  group  of  elected municipalities  improved 1.8% 
points  while  the  total  group  of  municipalities  also  improved  from  the  past  years  by  1.9% 
points; and half of the elected municipalities reduced their CO2 emissions. 
The economic capital scores of elected municipalities improved 0.48% while the total group 
improved 0.83%.  
The socio-cultural capital improved to some degree for the group of elected municipalities 
(0.11%) but declined slightly for the total group (-0.09%). 

 
Furthermore, the analysis shows that 70% of elected municipalities realized a stable or improved total 
sustainability score.  
 
 
Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the BNG Bank Sustainability Bond framework 
Strengths and Limitations of TSC-Telos Sustainability Monitor Methodology 
The  methodology  developed  by  TSC-Telos  for  ranking  municipalities  based  on  their  sustainability 
performance has been improved since its first version in 2014. Sustainalytics has a positive view on the 
methodology changes implemented. Namely, a more refined municipality typology has been introduced, 
which allows for benchmarking municipalities against similar municipalities within a category, using both 
a quantitative and a qualitative approach. Additionally, indicators have been revised based on relevance 
and availability of reliable data.  
 
Based on a detailed review of the Capitals, Themes and Indicators analysed in the Sustainability Monitor 
Methodology, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Telos National Monitor for Sustainable Municipalities 
is a useful and credible source for the requirements of BNG Bank in defining its eligibility criteria for the 
Sustainability  Bond.  The  process  is  transparent  and  data  is  collected  from  reliable  public  sources. 
Additionally,  the  annual  public  reporting  of  the  Sustainability  Monitor  results  provides  detailed 
information per indicator for each municipality and an overview of leading and lagging themes.  
 
However, Sustainalytics has also identified some limitations. The methodology does not fully demonstrate 
the  sustainability  improvements  of  low-scoring municipalities.  For  example,  low  scoring  municipalities 
with  pre-existing  disadvantages,  such  as  a  lack  of  economic  resources  and  ecological  infrastructures, 
might  implement  advanced  sustainability  approaches,  yet  the  resulting  improvement would  still  leave 
them in a low-scoring position. This makes it difficult to establish the potential positive impact of BNG 
Bank’s approach in the case of economically disadvantaged municipalities. 
 

 

 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

 
Furthermore, the methodology measures three capital domains using indicators that also correlate with 
factors like economic activity. For this reason, it is difficult to attribute improved environmental outcomes 
to  the  impact  of  the  bond.  For  example,  a  better  environmental  score  might  not  only  be  a  result  of 
improved environmental policies but it may also be an outcome of reduced economic activity that could 
have positively impacted environmental performance.  
 
Despite the limitations described above, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the TSC-Telos Sustainability 
Monitor  Methodology  provides  a  robust  approach  to  rating  the  sustainability  performance  of  Dutch 
municipalities.  Furthermore,  Elected  Municipalities  represent  top-performing  municipalities,  a  typical 
best-in-class approach. Sustainalytics considers that this is a robust and consistent process. 
 
Sustainalytics’ opinion on the use of the bond’s proceeds 
It should be noted that the proceeds of this bond are for general purpose use for the eligible sustainable 
municipalities. This is a deviation from ICMA’s Green Bond Principles in that the eligibility criteria for the 
use of proceeds are based on the sustainability performance of the borrowing entity rather than funding 
green projects. Nonetheless,  Sustainalytics is of the opinion that BNG Bank’s  approach  will encourage 
municipalities  to  become  more  sustainable  and  strive  to  become  ‘best-in-class’  municipalities. 
Furthermore, by focusing on top-performing municipalities, BNG Bank approach increases the likelihood 
of proceeds to be used to financing projects with good sustainability credentials.  
 
Sustainalytics’ opinion on impact reporting  
BNG Bank commissioned TSC-Telos to provide the yearly Impact Reports, based on the yearly National 
Monitor  Sustainable  Municipalities  Report.  The  second  report  covering  the  years  2014-2016  was 
published in September 2016. However, it should be noted that the nature of such reporting does not 
directly link the bond proceeds to the impact achieved by the municipalities, and therefore the reporting 
cannot be regarded as an indicator of the impact of the use of the proceeds of the bond. This limitation 
exists because of the way in which municipalities receive and allocate funds: funds from varied sources, 
such  as  the  Dutch  government,  taxation  and  loans  from  financial  institutions  including  BNG,  are  not 
separated. BNG has limited influence on the municipalities  to create separate accounts. Investors and 
other stakeholders will be able to view aggregate impacts achieved by the municipalities by reviewing 
publicly disclosed impact information published by TSC-Telos. 
 
Secondly, it should be realized that the data available for the monitor reports of 2014 and 2015 in fact 
describes  the  situation of roughly  two  years  before. So, this assessment  report  cannot  yet  detect  any 
impacts of the BNG Bank Sustainability Bond. This report should, therefore, be a start of measurement, 
which helps to develop the assessment methodology and detect possible changes in scores that may occur 
without the intervention of the Sustainability Bond. On a positive note, according to Telos’ Report, in the 
coming  assessment  periods  more  concrete  impacts  potentially  related  to  the  bond  proceeds  may  be 
detected.  For example, more  insights regarding the type of investment  projects might  be  disclosed as 
more information becomes available.  
 

 

 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Contribution of the BNG Bank framework to the Sustainable Development Goals9 
The development of sustainable cities is one of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). At present, 
the Dutch government is translating the SDGs into national policy actions, leading to a decentralization of 
many of its activities to promote sustainability at the municipal level. The reduction of carbon dioxide 
(CO2) emissions is one of the key commitments made by national governments in the framework of the 
UN Climate Change Convention and particularly since the 2015 Paris Agreement. In addition, individual 
cities  have  made  similar  commitments,  e.g.  in  the  framework  of  the  Covenant  of  Mayors  to  combat 
climate  change.  In  the  Netherlands,  the  Association  of  Dutch  Municipalities  (VNG)  has  signed  an 
agreement  in  201310  with  the  national  government  and  other  parties  to  substantially  reduce  CO2 
emissions by 2020. Hence, investments from individual municipalities are expected the coming years. 
 
Although the emphasis is still on activities that affect our climate and environment,  municipalities are 
gradually moving to investment projects and policy initiatives where reducing environmental pressure is 
coupled with improving long-term economic profitability and social performance.  
 
Alignment with Green Bond Principles 2016  
Sustainalytics has determined that the BNG Bank Sustainability Bond 2016 in in line with the four pillars 
of the  ICMA’s  Green  Bond  Principles 2016.  For  further  information  please  refer  to  Appendix  3:  Green 
Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form. 
 
 
Conclusion 
The  Sustainability  Bond  aims  to  promote  BNG  Bank’s  investment  in  ‘best  in  class’  sustainable 
municipalities  in  The  Netherlands  based  on  a  Sustainability  Monitor  Methodology  developed  by  TSC-
Telos.  Sustainalytics  considers  this  to  be  an  innovative  approach  that  provides  incentives  for 
municipalities to improve and better understand their overall sustainability performance. Sustainalytics 
is of the opinion that the assessment methodology implemented and the selection process is a robust 
process that ensures that bond proceeds will be directed to municipalities with stronger ecological, social 
and economic performance and that are more likely to use those funds to financing projects with good 
sustainability credentials.  
 
Based  on  the  above  points,  Sustainalytics  considers  BNG  Bank’s  Sustainability  Bond  to  be  robust  and 
credible. 
 
 
 

 

 

 
9 NV Bank Nederlandse Gemeenten (BNG Bank) Sustainability Bond 2016 Framework 
10 Energy Agreement for Sustainable Growth [Energieakkoord voor duurzame groei] referenced earlier in the document 

 

 

10 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

APPENDICES 
 
Appendix 1: Documents Reviewed 
 
Sustainalytics reviewed the following documents for the purposes of writing this report 
 

Number 
1 
2 

3 

4 
5 
6 
7 
8 

 
 

Document Name 
NV Bank Nederlandse Gemeenten (BNG Bank) Sustainability Bond 2016 Framework 
First Performance Report (2014-2015) of Elected Dutch Sustainable Municipalities of the BNG 
Bank Sustainability Bond  
Second Performance Report (2014-2016) of Elected Dutch Municipalities of BNG Bank 
Sustainability Bond 
MVO-Beleid BNG Bank 2015 
Nationale monitor duurzame gemeenten 2016: een stap vooruit! 
www.bngbank.nl 
www.telos.nl 
Energy Agreement for Sustainable Growth (Energieakkoord voor duurzame groei) 

 

 

 

11 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Appendix 2: Sustainability Monitor Methodology 2016 
 
The three pillars (capitals), the 19 themes and the 105 indicators used for quantitative monitoring 

 

 

 

12 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

 
 

 

 

 

 

13 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics is the largest independent provider of sustainability 
research, analysis, and services to investors. We serve over 250 
institutional investors which include some of the world's largest asset 
owners and asset managers. Through over 20 years of experience 
serving the responsible investment (RI) market, we have gained a 
reputation for providing high-quality ESG research solutions and 
excellent client service. 

Sustainalytics is headed by seasoned professionals in the field of 
business, finance, and sustainability, with a wealth of experience in the 
Responsible Investment area. After more than 20 years of local 
experience and expertise in the Responsible Investment (RI) market 
Sustainalytics has developed a comprehensive understanding of trends 
and best practices and a solid process to assist organisations in 
integrating ESG considerations into their policies and strategies. We 
have worked with some of the world’s financial institutions including 
pension plans, investment managers and banks providing customised 
support to help them achieve their RI objectives. Clients include ABN 
AMRO, APG, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank, ING Bank, Lombard 
Odier, Lloyds Bank, Triodos Bank, UBS and over 250 other financial 
institutions and organisations. 

Sustainalytics now has a staff of 250 employees globally, including over 
120 analysts, with operations in Amsterdam, Boston, Bucharest, 
Frankfurt, New York, Paris, London, Singapore, Sydney, Timisoara, and 
Toronto, and representation in Brussels and Washington DC. 

In 2015, Sustainalytics was named the Best 
SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
GlobalCapital. In December 2014, for the 
third year in a row, Sustainalytics was 
named best sustainable and responsible 
investment research firm in the 
Independent Research in Responsible 
Investment (IRRI) Survey, conducted by 
Thomson Reuters and SRI-CONNECT.  

 

 

20 

