 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

CAJA RURAL DE NAVARRA  

SUSTAINABILITY BOND 

 

 

 

 
 
 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

July 28, 2016 

Trisha Taneja (Toronto) 

Tim Langer (London) 

Advisor, Advisory Services 

Advisor, Institutional Relations 

trisha.taneja@sustainalytics.com 

tim.langer@sustainalytics.com 

(+1) 647 317 3695 

(+44) 20 3695 9528 

 

 

 

 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

1. 

Introduction 

2.  Company profile 

3.  Framework overview 
3.1  Use of Proceeds 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
3.3  Management of Proceeds 
3.4  Reporting 

4. Sustainalytics’ Opinion 

Conclusion 

APPENDICES 

Appendix 1: List of KPIs 
Appendix 2: Alignment with Green Bond Principles 
Appendix 3: European Union Framework for Rural Development Programmes 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

1 

3 

3 

4 
4 
7 
7 
8 

9 
11 

12 
12 
13 
18 

20 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

1. INTRODUCTION 
 
Caja Rural de Navarra has engaged Sustainalytics to provide a second opinion on its sustainability bond 
issuance and the bond’s environmental and social credentials.  As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics 
held conversations with various members of Caja Rural de Navarra’s management team to understand 
the  sustainability  impact  of  their  lending,  and  planned  use  of  proceeds  for  the  bond  issuance. 
Sustainalytics  also  reviewed  relevant  public  and  internal  documents.  This  document  contains  two 
sections: Framework Overview – summary of the Caja Rural de Navarra Sustainability Bond framework; 
and Sustainalytics’ Opinion – an opinion on the framework. 
 
2. COMPANY PROFILE 
 
Caja Rural de Navarra is a cooperative, regional and retail focused bank that provides banking and financial 
services in northern Spain: Basque Country, Navarre and La Rioja. It was established in 1910 as the central 
institution for local co-operatives of the region; since 1946, it has evolved to become  a regional co-op 
bank,  with  its  customers  now  based  both  in  rural  and  in  urban  areas.  Its  customer  segments  include 
individuals, retailers, Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), large corporates, and institutions. It offers a 
range of products and services- mortgage and consumer loans, financing for businesses, demand and time 
savings products, investment services, guarantees, debit and credit cards, and also engages in insurance 
brokerage activities.  
 
Additionally,  Caja  Rural  de  Navarra  is  a  part  of  the  Caja  Rural  Group,  a  financial  group  for  Spanish 
cooperative banking institutions, whose model is based on the European cooperative credit movement. 
In its 2015 Annual Report, Caja Rural de Navarra discloses that as a cooperative bank that is a member of 
the Caja Rural Group, it is subject to Spanish legal acts and the Caja Rural Group’s articles of association. 
In accordance with these, Caja Rural de Navarra maintains a Social Welfare Fund, to which it donates ten 
percent of its annual profits. The objective of  the Social Welfare Fund is to “promote the cooperative 
model and foster relationships between cooperative entities,” and to develop social and environmental 
initiatives that are beneficial to the community it serves.  These social and environmental standards also 
serve  as  a  broad  sustainability  framework  for  Caja  Rural  de  Navarra’s  existing  portfolio  of  loans;  the 
strategy for loan origination has priorities that are coherent and complementary with those of the Social 
Welfare  Fund.  These  priorities  include  social  housing,  entrepreneurship,  sustainable  agriculture, 
renewable  energy,  SMEs  and  micro  finance,  and  social  inclusion.  Additionally,  Caja  states  it  regularly 
tracks its loans to ensure adherence to this sustainability framework. The tracking is based on internal 
guidelines, or officially defined external criteria (as is the case with social housing and SME financing).  
 
Furthermore, the legal structure of Caja Rural de Navarra is that of a “Credit cooperative,” i.e. borrowers 
are also shareholders (“cooperative members”) of the bank. The borrowers are able to take part in the 
corporate governance of Caja through a democratic, co-operative process managed through governing 
bodies (General Assembly and Board of Directors). The borrowers’ inputs are then used to determine the 
strategy of the bank, grounding it in an approach that engages stakeholders.  
 

 

 

3 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

To maintain its identity as a European cooperative grounded in the success of local communities, and to 
extend the track record of its Social Welfare Fund to its lending portfolio, Caja Rural de Navarra is planning 
to issue a sustainability bond. The bond will finance lending to projects or activities focused on sustainable 
agriculture, renewable energy, energy efficiency, sustainable forest management, waste  management, 
social  housing,  education,  and  economic  inclusion  that  are  eligible  according  to  the  Use  of  Proceeds 
criteria outlined in the Framework Overview.  
 
 
3. FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 
 
Caja Rural de Navarra is issuing a sustainability bond to finance lending to projects or activities that are 
focused on  environmental  sustainability  and  creating  social  impact  in  local  communities.  The  projects 
funded through the bond will align with Caja’s internal sustainability principles as reflected in its Social 
Welfare Fund, and its core identity as a local and regionally focused cooperative. The following section 
summarises  Caja’s  sustainability  bond  framework,  including  the  use  of  proceeds,  process  for  project 
selection, the management of proceeds, and reporting.   
 
3.1   Use of Proceeds 
 
The proceeds of the sustainability bond will be allocated towards lending to projects or activities that are 
eligible as per the criteria specified below.  
 
Eligibility Criteria 
To be eligible for loans financed through the sustainability bond proceeds, the projects or activities funded 
must meet one or more of the following eligibility criteria: 

 
1.  CATEGORY: SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

Reduce  methane  or  Green  House  Gas  (GHG)  emissions  resulting  from  agriculture  or 
livestock management. Examples of qualifying projects include management of manure 
using bio-digesters, and the use of rangeland management techniques.  
 
Develop or operate  agricultural, food production, or food processing facilities (such as 
buildings and equipment) that have reduced GHG emissions.  

Produce  or  use  equipment/technologies  that  decrease  the  GHG  emissions  of  core 
agricultural inputs and processes, such as irrigation, warehousing, transportation, crop 
protection, fertilizers, and animal feed.  

Develop  or  operate  infrastructure/services/processes  that  reduce  waste  and  post-
harvest  losses,  including  through  increasing  the  efficiency  of  food  resource  use.  An 
example of such an activity is the repurposing of wasted human food as animal feed.  

4 

 

 

 

 

 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

v. 

Improve  or  reduce  the  depletion  of  existing  carbon  pools.  Examples  of  qualifying 
projects/activities  include  reducing  fertilizer  use,  collecting  and  re-using  agricultural 
waste, and rehabilitating degraded lands.  

2.  CATEGORY: RENEWABLE ENERGY 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

Generate  electricity  from  renewable  sources  such  as  solar  power,  wind  power, 
geothermal, hydropower. 
 
Develop, produce, or distribute bio-based fuels that achieve at least a 50% reduction in 
GHG  emissions  as  compared  to  fossil  fuels  used  in  transport,  heating,  or  electricity 
generation  

Develop  or  operate  transmission  infrastructure  and  systems  that  (a)  facilitate  the 
inclusion of renewable energy into the grid, (b) support the distribution of bio-fuels (same 
emissions reduction criteria applies as above), (c) are wholly dedicated to energy from 
renewable sources, or (d) improve existing systems to facilitate the integration of energy 
from renewable sources into the grid 

iv.  Manufacture components whose sole purpose is use in renewable energy technologies  

3.  CATEGORY: ENERGY EFFICIENCY  

i. 

Develop  or  use  products/technologies  that  reduce  the  energy  consumption  of  the 
underlying asset/system  
 

ii.  Manufacture  components  whose  sole  purpose 

is  use 

in  energy  efficiency 

products/technologies 

4.  CATEGORY: SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT  

i. 

ii. 

Execute  the  afforestation  (including  development  of  plantations)  of  non-forested  land 
 
Reforest previously forested land  
 

5.  CATEGORY: WASTE MANAGEMENT 

i. 

Develop or use technology/equipment that increases resource use efficiency to decrease 
waste, or that reduces waste production  
 

6.  CATEGORY: AFFORDABLE HOUSING  

i. 

ii. 

Provide  social  housing  mortgages  to  disadvantaged  populations,  as  defined  by  the 
requirements set by regional governments. These requirements can include criteria such 
as income level, number of family members, number of aged/disabled people within the 
family, relevant immigrant background of the family, violence experienced by women in 
households, and single parent households.   
 
Provide affordable housing in the form of old age residences to the elderly 

5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

7.  CATEGORY: SOCIAL INCLUSION 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

Construct  cultural  facilities  such  as  community  centers  for  socially/economically 
marginalized groups such as physically or mentally disabled populations. 
 
Provide job training programmes or facilities to youth, unemployed, physically or 
mentally disabled populations, or any other socially/economically marginalized groups 
 
Improve the teaching and use of languages, including minority regional languages, 
immigrant languages, and Spanish language learning activities for immigrants.  
 

8.  CATEGORY: EDUCATION  

i. 

ii. 

Construct buildings or lab facilities in schools. Examples of school buildings include (but 
are not limited to) gyms, computer labs, libraries, vocational school buildings.  
 
Construct university campus buildings or facilities at any public and non-profit university 
campus.  
 

9.  CATEGORY: ECONOMIC INCLUSION  

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

Provide microfinance loans or loans to increase financial inclusion that (a) are less than 
EUR 25,000 in size, or (b) are granted to individuals through branches of Caja Rural de 
Navarra  located  in  villages  with  a  population  below  3,000  and  with  average  annual 
income below that of the regional average (EUR 18,2131) 
 
Provide  micro  enterprise  financing  and  lending  to  micro-entrepreneurs,  as  per  the 
definition specified by the European Union (EU). The EU defines a micro-enterprise as an 
organisation  that  meets  two  of  the  following  three  criteria-  (a)  has  fewer  than  10 
employees; (b) has a balance sheet below EUR 2 million; (c) has a turnover below EUR 2 
million  
 
Provide  financing  and  lending  to  Small  and  Medium  Enterprises  (SMEs),  as  per  the 
definition specified by the EU. The EU defines a SME as an organisation that meets two 
of the following three criteria- (a) have fewer than 250 employees; (b) have a balance 
sheet below EUR 43 million; (c) have a turnover below EUR 50 million  

 

 

 

 

 

 

1Source : Navarra Statistical Institute http://www.navarra.es/AppsExt/GN.InstitutoEstadistica.Web/informacionestadistica.aspx?R=1&E=3 

 

 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Exclusionary Criteria  
Caja Rural de Navarra has developed a list of exclusionary criteria for the proceeds of this sustainability 
bond. Caja Rural de Navarra commits itself to not knowingly be involved in financing any of the following 
projects/activities through the proceeds of this sustainability bond: 
 

1.  Large scale hydro projects (i.e. projects that generate greater than 20 MW of electricity) 
2.  Technology and equipment for large scale hydro projects 
3.  Transmission infrastructure and systems where 25% or more of electricity transmitted to the 

grid is fossil-fuel-generated 

4.  Agricultural or afforestation operations located on land designated as primary forest,  high 

conservation value areas, or legally preserved areas 

5.  Payday loans and predatory lending activities  
6.  Lending to micro-enterprises or SMEs that (a) manufacture alcohol, or (b) are wholesalers of 

alcoholic beverages  

7.  Lending  to  micro-enterprises  or  SMEs  that  (a)  manufacture  tobacco  products,  or  (b)  are 

wholesalers of tobacco products  

8.  Lending to micro-enterprises or SMEs that own or operate gambling establishments/activities 
9.  Lending to micro-enterprises or SMEs that are involved in (a) the manufacture of weapons 
and small arms, or (b) the retail sale and distribution of weapons and small arms, or (c) the 
production of products and services supporting the manufacture or retail sale of weapons 
and small arms. 

10.  Lending  to  micro-enterprises  or  SMEs  that  are  involved  in  the  extraction,  refining,  or 

transportation of fossil fuels.  

11.  Lending to micro-enterprises or SMEs that are involved in the production or refining of palm 

oil.  

 
 

3.2   Project Evaluation and Selection Process  
 
The  loans  financed  through  the  proceeds  will  be  evaluated  for  financial  viability  by  the  Credit  Risk 
department,  and  for  alignment  with  the  eligibility  criteria  by  the  Sustainability  Committee.    The 
Sustainability  Committee  will  be  coordinated  by  the  Treasury  department,  and  will  consist  of 
representatives  from  the  primary  departments  involved  in  lending  activities  (Corporate  department, 
Institutional Clients department, Housing department, and the Risk department). 
 

3.3   Management of Proceeds 
 
The  proceeds  from  the  bond  will  be  placed  in  Caja  Rural  de  Navarra’s  treasury  and  managed  by  the 
Treasury  and  Capital  Markets  department.  The  proceeds  from  the  bond  will  be  allocated  directly  to 
existing or new loans. Caja has confirmed that at the time of issue, it expects to have a sufficient number 
of existing loans to utilize the entire proceeds of the sustainability bond, and that this number of loans 
also comply with the exclusionary criteria above established for the amount of the proceeds of the bond. 

 

 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Caja has also disclosed that book liquidity of any potential unallocated funds will be managed in line with 
the standard processes of the Treasury department. Liquidity will be managed mainly by investing in OECD 
sovereigns and sub-sovereigns. 
 
Caja Rural de Navarra has disclosed to Sustainalytics that its Treasury and Capital Markets department (in 
collaboration  with  other  relevant  departments)  has  established  an  internal  process  to  manage  the 
allocation of net proceeds to eligible loans. Caja’s internal system classifies and tags all sustainable loans 
as either sustainable by the nature of the client, or sustainable by the purpose of the loan. Loans that 
tagged  as  sustainable  by  their  particular  purpose  are  categorized  into  a  spreadsheet  where  each 
sustainable loan is a separate line item, and each eligible category is marked by a separate column. Each 
sustainable loan is then matched to an eligible category described under the Use of Proceeds section of 
this framework (section 3.1). Loans that  are matched to multiple eligible categories will be assigned a 
primary  eligible  category.  All  other  eligible  categories  will  not  be  used  for  allocation,  avoiding  any 
duplicity.  The  rationale  for  selecting  the  primary  eligible  category  will  be  transparently  outlined  in  a 
separate section in the ongoing reporting to investors. This reporting will also be publicly available on Caja 
Rural de Navarra´s website. 
 
 
3.4   Reporting 
 
Allocation Reporting 
Caja Rural de Navarra has confirmed that on an annual basis, it will disclose the allocation of proceeds to 
each eligible category outlined in the framework. Specifically, it will disclose the following information- (i) 
the outstanding amount of its loan book, disaggregated by eligible categories; (ii) the outstanding number 
of loans, disaggregated by eligible categories; and (iii) number of borrowers (individuals and enterprises), 
disaggregated by eligible categories.  
 
This disclosure will be made in a separate section in the ongoing reporting to investors, which will also be 
publicly available on Caja Rural de Navarra’s website.  Additionally, Caja Rural de Navarra has confirmed 
that its annual report will include a special section on allocation of bond proceeds. This annual report will 
be audited by the external auditor. 
 
Impact Reporting 
Where feasible, Caja Rural de Navarra has committed to reporting on Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) 
in aggregate for each eligible category. This disclosure will be made in a separate section in the ongoing 
reporting to investors, which will also be publicly available on Caja Rural de Navarra’s website. Please see 
Appendix 1 for a full list of KPIs. Where feasible, Caja Rural de Navarra has committed to reporting on Key 
Performance Indicators (KPIs) in aggregate for each eligible category. It has also committed to making its 
best efforts to improve KPI reporting over time. At the date of issuing of this report, Caja Rural de Navarra 
has confirmed the availability of most KPIs on Affordable Housing and Economic Inclusion. 
 
 
 
 

 

 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

4. SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
 
The role of cooperative lending in advancing the Sustainable Development Goals through rural socio-
economic development: The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were set in September 2015 through 
a multi-stakeholder partnership, and form an agenda for achieving sustainable development by the year 
2030. These goals are widely considered to be the next step to the Millennium Development Goals (MDG), 
which were time-bound to 2015.  Unlike the MDG’s, the SDGs emphasize the elimination of inequality 
and disparity in opportunity globally, in both developed and developing countries. 
 
In particular, the SDGs emphasize the importance of rural socio-economic development in achieving its 
second  goal  of  “Zero  Hunger”.  This  goal  aims  to  “end  hunger,  achieve  food  security  and  improved 
nutrition, and promote sustainable agriculture” by 2030.2 Key targets associated with this goal include 
doubling  agricultural  productivity  of  small-scale  food  producers,  ensuring  sustainable  food  production 
systems, strengthening capacity of  agricultural ecosystems to adapt to climate  change,  and increasing 
investment in rural infrastructure.  
 
Credit cooperatives play a significant role in promoting rural socio-economic development and advancing 
the SDG described above.  The value of co-operatives is derived from their ability and willingness to offer 
credit to financially excluded or underserved populations that do not have collateral to secure loans. Such 
lending  fosters  both  economic  and  social  development  of  rural  or  underserved  regions  by  growing 
economic activity, developing infrastructure, and creating social networks. 3 
 
Caja Rural de Navarra’s lending to eligible projects described in the framework is focussed in the rural 
towns of Navarra, La Rioja, and Alava provinces.  These towns have a population under 3,000 inhabitants, 
an average annual income that is less than the regional average of EUR 18,213, and are traditionally not 
served by other financial service providers due to their remote nature. By serving these rural and remote 
towns, Caja Rural de Navarra is playing a key role in promoting their socio-economic development, and in 
advancing the second “Zero Hunger” SDG. The Sustainable Agriculture eligibility criteria in particular is 
well aligned with the targets of the second SDG described above.  
 
Alignment  with  rural  development  priorities  in  Spain:  Of  the  total  land  area  covered  by  Spain 
(approximately  505,991  km2),  80%  is  rural.  According  to  the  European  Commission’s  National  Rural 
Development  Programme  (NRDP)  for  Spain,  Spanish  rural  areas  are  challenged  by  a  high  youth 
unemployment  rate  of  over  50%,  making  socio-economic  development  of  rural  areas  an  important 
national priority.4 
 

 
2 Sustainable Development Goals https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/?menu=1300  
3 The Role of Co-operative Banking Systems in the European Union-27: An Analysis of the Spanish Case, 
http://www.agriculturaits.czu.cz/pdf_files/vol_42_3_pdf/melian.pdf  
4European Commission, Factsheet on 2014-2020 National Rural Development Programme for Spain, http://ec.europa.eu/agriculture/rural-
development-2014-2020/country-files/es/factsheet_en.pdf  
 

 

 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

The NRDP for Spain is based on the European Union’s (EU) rural development framework that outlines 6 
common European priorities for rural development (see Appendix 3 for details)5. Of these 6 European 
priorities, 3 are particularly relevant to the regional context of Navarra and La Rioja. These 3 priorities are 
reflected in the Regional Rural Development Programmes for Navarra and La Rioja, and are outlined in 
Table 1.  
 
Table 1: European rural development priorities relevant to regional context of Navarra and La Rioja 

Rural Development Priority   
Promoting  resource  efficiency  and  a  low-carbon  economy  in  agriculture  and 
forestry 
Increasing the use of innovative and efficient farm technologies to enhance the 
competitiveness of rural agriculture 
Restoration of agricultural and forestry ecosystems  

Region  
Navarra 

Navarra, La Rioja 

Navarra, La Rioja 

 
As per the European Commission factsheet on Navarra’s Rural Development Programme, agriculture and 
livestock  management  are  two  important  industries  for  the  region.6This  makes  increasing  the 
competitiveness of the agricultural sector while simultaneously enhancing its sustainability an important 
regional challenge for Navarra. A relevant example is the use of irrigation in agriculture; 13.5% of utilised 
agricultural  area  in  Navarra  is  irrigated.  Shifting  to  more  efficient  irrigation  systems  is  an  important 
objective  for  agriculture  in  Navarra  in  order  to  both  increase  competitiveness  and  maintain  resource 
efficiency.7  Similarly, as 42.1% of Navarra is identified as forest area, sustainable forest management is 
an important objective for the region. Given this scenario, using the bond proceeds to lend according to 
the eligible categories of Sustainable Agriculture and Sustainable Forest Management is well aligned with 
Navarra’s rural development priorities.  
 
The rural development challenges faced by La Rioja also have a distinct context. In La Rioja, the small size 
of farmlands (50% of the farms are sized at less than 5 hectares) poses a challenge to the competitiveness 
of the agricultural sector.8 This has made promoting the use of innovative farm technologies a necessity. 
In  addition,  La  Rioja  has  a  higher  proportion  of  ageing  population  than  the  national  and  EU  average, 
marking the need for targeted social inclusion activities.9 Given this context, using the bond proceeds to 
lend according to the categories of Sustainable Agriculture and Social Inclusion is well aligned with La 
Rioja’s rural development priorities.  
 
 

 
5 European Commission, 2014-202 Rural Development Framework, http://ec.europa.eu/agriculture/rural-development-2014-
2020/index_en.htm  
6 European Commission, Factsheet on 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme for Navarra; http://ec.europa.eu/agriculture/rural-
development-2014-2020/country-files/es/factsheet-navarra_en.pdf  
7 European Network for Rural Development, 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme for Navarra: Key facts & figures; 
https://enrd.ec.europa.eu/sites/enrd/files/es_navarra_rdp_qnt_summary_v1.pdf     
8 European Commission, Factsheet on 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme for La Rioja; http://ec.europa.eu/agriculture/rural-
development-2014-2020/country-files/es/factsheet-rioja_en.pdf  
9 European Commission, Factsheet on 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme for La Rioja; http://ec.europa.eu/agriculture/rural-
development-2014-2020/country-files/es/factsheet-rioja_en.pdf  

 

 

10 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

A track record of executing social and environmental initiatives in communities: As a credit cooperative 
with origins in lending to traditionally underserved rural communities, Caja Rural de Navarra has a strong 
track record of contributing to the economic and social development of the communities it serves.  This 
is best exemplified by its Social Welfare Fund; Caja annually utilizes ten percent of its profits to develop 
social and environmental initiatives that are beneficial to the local communities. These initiatives range 
from promoting environmental awareness in schools, to funding programs that improve the quality of life 
of socially or economically marginalized populations, such as the elderly. Such activities developed by the 
Social  Welfare  Fund  that  are  targeted  to  marginalized  populations  demonstrate  that  Caja  Rural  de 
Navarra’s approach to social impact is well aligned with industry norms such as Social Bond Guidance. 
Additionally, Caja Rural de Navarra’s track record in managing the Social Welfare Fund also exhibits the 
organization’s capacity to responsibly execute social and environmental projects in local communities. 
Based on the above, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Caja Rural de Navarra carries a low degree of 
reputational  risk  with  regards  to  community  oriented  social  and  environmental  activities,  and  is  well 
positioned to issue a sustainability bond.  
 
Alignment with Green Bond Principles 2016 and Social Bond Guidance  
Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  Caja  Rural  de  Navarra’s  sustainability  bond  follows  the  guidance 
provided by the Green Bond Principles 2016, and adheres to its four pillars. Please see Appendix 2 for 
more details. In addition, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Caja de Navarra’s sustainability bond is well 
aligned with the 2016 Social Bond Guidance, due to (a) the nature of the social projects described in the 
eligibility  criteria,  and  (b)  the  targeted  nature  of  the  towns  served,  and  the  targeted  nature  of  the 
socially/economically  marginalized  communities  served  within  these  towns.    Given  the  remote  and 
underserved nature of these rural towns, their lower level of average annual income, and the targeted 
nature of Caja’s eligibility criteria that ensures the inclusion of marginalized groups, Sustainalytics is of the 
opinion that Caja’s social lending activities are in line with market best-practices and can be expected to 
provide a high level of impact to underserved communities. 
 
Conclusion 
By issuing a sustainability bond to finance socio-economic development of rural towns in Spain, Caja Rural 
de Navarra is acting in accordance with its sustainability framework, and is capitalizing on its strong track 
record of executing social and environmental initiatives in communities.  
 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Caja Rural de Navarra’s sustainability bond framework is transparent 
and  robust.  Given  the  national  and  regional  context  described  in  the  opinion,  the  eligibility  criteria 
established  by  Caja  Rural  de  Navarra  for  the  proceeds  of  this  sustainability  bond  are  aligned  with 
European, Spanish, and regional priorities  for rural  development. In particular, the promotion of rural 
lending  through  the  eligibility  categories  of  Sustainable  Agriculture,  Sustainable  Forest  Management, 
Economic Inclusion, and Social Inclusion can be considered an important step towards meeting the rural 
development  challenges  of  Navarra  and  La  Rioja.  Additionally,  the  socio-economic  development 
promoted by Caja’s lending in rural areas is an important step in advancing the SDG of Zero Hunger. The 
Sustainable Agriculture eligibility category outlined in the framework is particularly well aligned with the 
targets of the second SDG.  
 
 

 

 

11 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

APPENDICES 
Appendix 1: List of KPIs 
 

Category 
Sustainable Forest 
Management 

Social Housing 

Education 

Social Inclusion 

 
 
 
Economic Inclusion 

KPIs 
Area of land reforested (hectares or acres) 
Area of previously non-forested land that is forested (hectares or acres) 
Number of mortgages provided as per regional government requirements 
Number of disadvantaged families housed in social housing 
Number of students served by the buildings/facilities constructed, as measured by 
building/facility capacity  
Unemployment rate in region where job training programmes are offered 
Number of people enrolled in job training programmes  
Number of people enrolled in language classes/programmes. This includes 
programmes that promote learning or use of minority languages, or other cultural 
inclusion programmes aligned with the eligibility criteria 
Proportion of microfinance, micro-enterprise, and SME loans successfully repaid 
Proportion of microfinance loan recipients with successful micro-businesses 
Number of people employed by micro-enterprises or SMEs 
Default rate of loan recipients  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

12 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Appendix 3: European Union Framework for Rural Development Programmes10 
 
Member States and regions draw up their rural development programmes based on the needs of their 
territories and addressing at least four of the following six common EU priorities: 
 

1.  Fostering knowledge transfer and innovation in agriculture, forestry and rural areas; 

 

2.  Enhancing the viability and competitiveness of all types of agriculture, and promoting innovative 

farm technologies and sustainable forest management; 
 

3.  Promoting food chain organisation, animal welfare and risk management in agriculture; 

 

4.  Restoring, preserving and enhancing ecosystems related to agriculture and forestry; 

5.  Promoting resource efficiency and supporting the shift toward a low-carbon and climate-resilient 

economy in the agriculture, food and forestry sectors; 

6.  Promoting social inclusion, poverty reduction and economic development in rural areas. 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
10European Commission, 2014-202 Rural Development Framework, http://ec.europa.eu/agriculture/rural-development-2014-
2020/index_en.htm 

 

 

18 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
 
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
 
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
 
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
 
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

19 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics is the largest independent provider of sustainability 
research, analysis, and services to investors. We serve over 250 
institutional investors which include some of the world's largest asset 
owners and asset managers. Through over 20 years of experience 
serving the responsible investment (RI) market, we have gained a 
reputation for providing high-quality ESG research solutions and 
excellent client service. 

Sustainalytics is headed by seasoned professionals in the field of 
business, finance, and sustainability, with a wealth of experience in the 
Responsible Investment area. After more than 20 years of local 
experience and expertise in the Responsible Investment (RI) 
marketSustainalytics has developed a comprehensive understanding of 
trends and best practices and a solid process to assist organisations in 
integrating ESG considerations into their policies and strategies. We 
have worked with some of the world’s financial institutions including 
pension plans, investment managers and banks providing customised 
support to help them achieve their RI objectives. Clients include ABN 
AMRO, APG, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank, ING Bank, Lombard 
Odier, Lloyds Bank, Triodos Bank, UBS and over 250 other financial 
institutions and organisations. 

Sustainalytics now has a staff of 250 employees globally, including over 
120 analysts, with operations in Amsterdam, Boston, Bucharest, 
Frankfurt, New York, Paris, London, Singapore, Sydney, Timisoara, and 
Toronto, and representation in Brussels and Washington DC. 

In 2015, Sustainalytics was named the Best 
SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
GlobalCapital.In December 2014, for the 
third year in a row, Sustainalytics was 
named best sustainable and responsible 
investment research firm in the 
Independent Research in Responsible 
Investment (IRRI) Survey, conducted by 
Thomson Reuters and SRI-CONNECT.  

 

 

20 

