Castellum Green Bond Framework 

OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

September 7, 2016 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

© Sustainalytics 2016 
 
 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

INTRODUCTION 

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
1. 
2.  FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 
2.1  Introduction 
2.2  Castellum’s Sustainability Profile 
2.3  Castellum’s Green Bond 
2.3.1 Use of Proceeds 
2.3.2 Process for Project Evaluation and Selection 
2.2.3 Management of Proceeds 
2.2.4 Impact Reporting 
3.  Sustainalytics’ Opinion 
Appendix I: Real Estate Certification Systems - Miljöbyggnad Standards and BREEAM Standards 

Comparison 

Appendix II: ESG Analysis 
Appendix III: Adherence to the Green Bond Principles 2016 

About Sustainalytics 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

0 
2 
2 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
4 
4 
5 
6 

10 
14 
15 

20 

1 

© Sustainalytics 2016 
 
 

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  
Castellum, an industry leader in environmental, social, and governance (ESG) management in the 
real  estate  sector  as  per  Sustainalytics’  ESG  ratings,  has  elected  to  develop  a  Green  Bond 
Framework for the future issuance of interest bearing notes with added environmental criteria. 
The  proceeds  will  be  allocated towards  the development  and  acquisition  of  new and  existing 
commercial real estate projects with a minimum certification level of BREEAM Excellent (for new 
assets) or BREEAM Very Good (for existing assets), or Miljöbyggnad Silver. The use of the BREEAM 
and  Miljöbyggnad  certification  schemes  ensures  strong  sustainability  performance,  and 
Castellum has committed to certification levels that represent demonstrable improvements from 
the  baseline  of  local  regulation.  In  addition,  Castellum  commits  within  the  Green  Bond 
Framework to high levels of transparency concerning the management of proceeds as well as 
annual reporting, including key impact metrics such as energy consumption, water usage and 
water footprint. As a result, investors will easily be able to verify that the proceeds have been 
allocated  only  towards  projects  that  meet  the  eligibility  criteria,  and  track  the  environmental 
impact of the use of proceeds. Overall, the Framework exceeds the requirements of the Green 
Bond  Principles  with  the  management  of  proceeds  and  reporting,  and  fully  aligns  with  the 
principles with regards to the use of proceeds and project selection. Furthermore, according to 
Sustainalytics  research,  Castellum  ranks  in  the  top  2%  on  sustainability  performance  among 
peers in the real estate industry globally and this framework aligns well with overall sustainability 
objectives of the company. Based on the above considerations, Sustainalytics is of the view that 
Castellum’s Green Bond Framework is strong and credible. 
 

1.  INTRODUCTION  

Castellum intends to issue a series of interest bearing notes with added environmental criteria 
(hereafter,  the  Green  Bonds)  via  its  domestic  medium  term  note  program  (MTN).  Castellum 
engaged  Sustainalytics  to  provide  a  second  party  opinion  on  its  Green  Bond  Framework.  
Sustainalytics is the largest independent provider of sustainability research, analysis, and services 
to investors and other financial institutions globally. Sustainalytics’ opinion intends to provide an 
assessment  of  the  framework’s  alignment  with  the  Green  Bond  Principles1  as  well  as  assess 
Castellum’s overall sustainability performance and its alignment with the framework.  To come 
to its opinion, Sustainalytics held conversations with members of Castellum’s Sustainability and 
Finance departments to understand the sustainability impact of their business processes, and to 
understand the use and management of proceeds for the company’s issuance of Green Bonds. 
Sustainalytics  also  reviewed  public  and  internal  documents  from  Castellum.  This  document 
contains two sections: Framework Overview – a summary of Castellum’s Green Bond Framework; 
and Sustainalytics’ Opinion – an opinion of the framework.  

 

1  The  Green  Bond  Principles  are  voluntary  process  guidelines  that  recommend  transparency  and  disclosure  and  promote  integrity  in  the 
development of the Green Bond market. They provide issuers guidance on the key components involved in launching a credible Green Bond 
and aid investors by ensuring availability of information necessary to evaluate the environmental impact of their Green bond investments.  

 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2016 
 
 

2.  FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW  

 
2.1 Introduction  
Castellum is a major Swedish-based real estate company with its headquarters in Gothenburg, 
Sweden.  Castellum  AB,  the  parent  company  in  the  Castellum  Group  (“Castellum”),  has 
subsidiaries operating in five regions: West, Stockholm, Central, North and Oresund. Castellum 
was founded in the 1990s and is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm stock exchange.  Castellum develops 
and rents office and retail properties as well as warehouse and industrial properties. As of end 
of June 2016, Castellum’s real estate portfolio compromised 742 properties with a total lettable 
area of approximately 4,700,000 square meters and a fair value of approximately SEK 72 billion. 
  
2.2 Castellum’s Sustainability Profile  
Castellum has a strong sustainability policy and environmental management system, which align 
with best practice. The company is a member of the Swedish Green Building Council (SGBC) and 
has outlined targets for green buildings in its Sustainability Policy. Castellum commits to have all 
new constructions and reconstructions environmentally certified and 30% of its portfolio to be 
certified by 2017. The company’s Sustainability Policy includes a focus on reducing its utilization 
of natural resources, including a target to decrease its energy use by 30% until 2017 compared 
to a 2007 baseline and source 90% of its energy from renewable sources. Castellum has a group-
wide Head of Sustainability and its board has oversight of the company’s Sustainability Policy. In 
2015, Castellum was awarded the World Green Building Council’s highest distinction Business 
Leadership  in  Sustainability,  which  awards  companies  exhibiting  best  practice  in  sustainable 
construction and projects. It has also earned the Green Star 2015, an award issued by the Global 
Real  Estate  Sustainability  Benchmark,  an  organization  assessing  the  ESG  performance  of  real 
estates.  
 
2.3 Castellum’s Green Bond 
Castellum intends to issue a series of interest bearing notes with added environmental criteria 
(hereafter,  the  Green  Bonds)  via  its  domestic  medium  term  note  program  (MTN).  The  net 
proceeds of the issuance of Green Bonds will be used to finance both the development and/or 
acquisition of new real estate assets and existing real estate assets. All projects financed by Green 
Bonds  proceeds  must  comply  with  Castellum’s  Process  for  Project  Evaluation  and  Selection, 
which outlines the eligibility criteria. The following sections summarize Castellum’s Green Bond 
Framework with respect to the use of proceeds, project selection, the management of proceeds, 
and reporting.  
 
2.3.1  Use of Proceeds 
The proceeds of the notes issued by Castellum will be used to finance projects that fall under the 
categories outlined below.  
 

 

3 

© Sustainalytics 2016 
 
 

  Development and/or acquisition of new real estate assets  
  Existing real estate assets (on-going reconstruction, recently acquired or otherwise 

completed and existing real estate assets)  

 
For  both  project  categories  above,  the  Green  Bonds  proceeds  must  comply  with  Castellum’s 
Process for Project Evaluation and Selection as well as the eligibility criteria of Castellum’s “Green 
Terms” outlined in the next section.  
 

2.3.2  Process for Project Evaluation and Selection  

To be funded through the use of proceeds, the real estate projects must meet the following 
eligibility criteria:  
 

1.  Projects falling under the development and/or acquisition of new real estate assets will 
require  a)  a  design  stage  certification  or  b)  an  in-use  certification  of  at  least  (A) 
Miljöbyggnad Silver or (B) BREEAM Excellent.  
 

2.  Projects falling under existing real estate assets will require a) a design stage certification 
or b) an in-use certification of at least (A) Miljöbyggnad Silver or (B) BREEAM Very Good. 
The design stage certification will be applicable when reconstructing existing assets.  

 
Miljöbyggnad  is  a  Swedish  certification  system  used  for  both  residential  and  commercial 
buildings  in  Sweden.  It  has  four  areas  of  assessment  (energy,  indoor  environment,  chemical 
substances, specific environmental demands), spanning 15 indicators overall. The Miljöbyggnad 
Silver standard sets minimum requirements across the four areas of assessment that go above 
legal compliance in Sweden. In comparison, BREEAM has 10 areas of assessment and buildings 
are examined on 50 indicators. For a full overview of the two standards, please see Appendix I.  
 
The  process  for  project  evaluation  and  the  selection  is  overseen  by  both  the  Sustainability 
Department  and  the  Finance  Department.  The  Sustainability  Department  tracks  and  reviews 
Castellum’s  environmentally  certified  real  estate  assets  and  will  identify  eligible  projects  and 
assets meeting the criteria outlined above. The decision to finance eligible projects and assets 
with net proceeds from the issuance of Green Bonds will be made in cooperation with the Group 
Finance  Department,  which  is  responsible  for  the  allocation  of  the  net  proceeds  from  the 
issuance  of  Green  Bonds  to  the  relevant  eligible  projects  and  assets  according  to  Castellum’s 
“Green Terms”.  
 

2.2.3  Management of Proceeds  

Green Bond net proceeds will be credited to a separate account, which disallows fungibility with 
other funds and enables strong monitoring and tracking of the use of proceeds. Castellum will 
keep a record of the purpose of the transfers on the separate account. Any payment or transfer 
from the account is only allowed when financing eligible projects and assets that have met the 

 

4 

© Sustainalytics 2016 
 
 

applicable  criteria  or  to  repay  a  Green  Bond.  Castellum’s  Group  Finance  Department  will  use 
intra-group loans, including specifications on the explicit use of proceeds to projects and assets, 
when allocating the net proceeds from the issuance of Green Bonds to subsidiaries owning the 
eligible projects and/or assets. In case the account has a positive balance, the unallocated funds 
may be invested in short-term interest bearing securities pending investment in eligible projects 
and  assets.  Allowed  investments  are  Swedish  treasury  bills  and  highly  rated  short-term  bank 
notes (A+ rating from S&P or equivalent rating from Moody’s or Fitch).  
 

2.2.4 

Impact Reporting  

Castellum will report on estimated impact in the following areas:  

  environmental certification  
  energy consumption (disclosed by absolute consumption in kWh and intensity in kWh 

per square meter) 

  water usage (disclosed by absolute consumption in m3 and intensity in m3 per square 

meter) 

  carbon footprint (disclosed by absolute emissions in tons and intensity in tons per 

square meter) 

  purchased renewable energy (disclosed by absolute consumption in kWh and intensity 

in KWh per square meter, and % renewable energy of the total purchased energy) 

  main method of heating and cooling  

 
The data will be provided in table format, disclosing all eligible projects and assets that have had 
net proceeds allocated to them. The energy and water consumption is measured in assets where 
Castellum is responsible for the purchase of energy and/or water. In buildings where the tenant 
is responsible for the energy and/or water supply, Castellum has no comprehensive picture of 
the actual energy and water consumption.  
 
Castellum will publish a yearly report describing the use of funds and adherence to all criteria 
outlined above. The reporting will include a list of all eligible projects and assets that have been 
financed with Green Bonds, a summary of Castellum’s activities in the past year in relation to 
Green Bonds as well as information regarding each eligible project’s adherence to the relevant 
eligibility criteria. For projects financed by the Green Bonds proceeds the reporting will disclose 
the  aggregate market  value  and  the  sum  of  existing  external debt for  such  assets.  It  will  also 
disclose the sum of outstanding Green Bonds and the sum of the account balance, including any 
short-term  investments.  A  third  party  appointed  by  Castellum  will  report  whether  the  Green 
Bond net proceeds have been allocated to the projects that Castellum outlines in its reporting 
and  comply  with  the  relevant  eligibility  criteria,  and  a  signed  document  will  be  provided  on 
Castellum’s website.  

 

 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2016 
 
 

3.  Sustainalytics’ Opinion  

 
Environmental Priorities and ESG Performance: By developing a Green Bond Framework and 
issuing Green Bonds, Castellum continues to leverage its position as an industry leader among 
real estate companies on sustainability performance. Castellum ranks in the top 2% among the 
301 real estate companies tracked by Sustainalytics’ research on the environmental, social, and 
governance  performance  of  companies.  In  addition,  the  company  has  strong  environmental 
policies  and  environmental  management  systems.  According  to  Sustainalytics’  research, 
Castellum  ranks  in  the  top  1%  on  environmental  management,  indicating  very  strong 
environmental performance.  Castellum also performs well ahead of its peers in the real estate 
industry across the most material sustainability issues, including  product sustainability, energy 
use, and human capital. For a full snapshot of Castellum’s environmental, social, and governance 
performance, please see Appendix II.2 
 
The company has set targets to improve its sustainability performance, including a commitment 
to  have  all  new  constructions  and  reconstructions  environmentally  certified  and  30%  of  its 
portfolio classified by 2017.3 This target aligns directly with the use of proceeds under the Green 
Bond framework.  
 
Taking  into  consideration  its  long-standing  sustainability focus,  commitments  and  overall  ESG 
rating,  Sustainalytics  believes  that  Castellum’s  green  bond  is  aligned  with  the  overall 
sustainability objectives of the company. 
 
Adherence to The Green Bond Principles (GBP): Sustainalytics has determined that Castellum’s 
green bond aligns with the four pillars of the Green Bond Principles 2016. Please also see 
Appendix III. 
 

In line with the 
GBP 2016?  
Yes 

Principle 

Use of 
Proceeds 
 

Comments 

Castellum’s  project  eligibility  criteria  are  based  on  third-party 
certification standards of BREEAM and Miljöbyggnad, both of which are 
used  in  Sweden.  In  using  Miljöbyggnad  Silver  and/or  BREEAM  Very 
Good, the eligibility criteria set robust standards on the sustainability 
performance of the eligible assets.  
 

 

2 Sustainalytics assesses Castellum in a peer group of 297 real estate companies. Peer groups are a Sustainalytics’ industry classification scheme 

that is aligned with GICS industry classification and also takes into account a company’s main operating activities and environmental, social, 
and governance risk exposures. 

3 As of 2015, 20% of Castellum’s portfolio was certified.  

 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2016 
 
 

Yes 

Project 
selection 
process 
 

 

The majority of BREEAM indicators are tradable and without minimum 
requirements,  meaning  that  buildings  can  receive  the  same 
certification based on the fulfillment of different indicators. However, 
this  weakness  is  partly  overcome  in  Castellum’s  framework  as  it  will 
report  transparently  on  each  project’s  energy  consumption,  carbon 
footprint,  and  water  usage  and  purchased  renewable  energy, 
regardless of the certification used. Furthermore, Castellum is already 
subject to Sweden’s stringent energy efficiency standards (BBR) under 
its national building regulations.  
 
In  addition,  the  framework  ensures  that  the  buildings  eligible  will 
maintain strong sustainability performance over the term of the Green 
Bond issuance. Since eligible assets need to have either design stage, 
operational,  or  in-use  certification4,  if  at  any  point  the  applicable 
certification expires without renewal it will no longer qualify under the 
eligibility criteria. This is important for investors concerned about the 
ongoing performance of the assets and building management.  
 
Although  Castellum  does  not  commit  to  a  ratio  or  target  of  new  vs. 
existing  real  estate  projects  selected  under  the  use  of  proceeds, 
Sustainalytics  has  reviewed  documentation  of  an  existing  pool  of 
eligible  assets.  Coupled  with  the  company’s  public  target  for 
certification  across  its  entire  portfolio,  Sustainalytics  believes  that 
Castellum  has  sufficient  assets  and  pipeline  to  allocate  the  use  of 
proceeds.  Furthermore,  Castellum  will  report  on  the  respective 
allocation of new vs. existing projects financed, for full transparency to 
investors.  
 
Overall,  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  Castellum’s  project 
eligibility  criteria  are  credible  and  that  the  company  is  effectively 
targeting its green bond proceeds towards environmentally beneficial 
projects.  
 
Castellum has outlined a clear decision-making process for the Project 
Selection Process  involving  both  its  Sustainability  and  Group  Finance 
Departments.  Given  that  eligible  projects  must  adhere  to  specific 
eligibility  criteria  and  the  selection  process 
in 
coordination with Castellum’s Sustainability Department, Sustainalytics 
is of the opinion that  the selection process  for projects and assets  is 
very  strong  and  ensures  that  the  selected  projects  will  adhere  to  all 
mentioned eligibility criteria. 

is  completed 

4 As Castellum is a property owner it is only responsible for the asset rating and the building management rating stages of the BREEAM in-use 

certification. It does not seek out the tenancy ratings of the certification.  

 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2016 
 
 

Yes 

Management 
of Proceeds 
 

Reporting 
 

Yes 

invested 

in  short-term 

The  net  proceeds  of  the  Green  Bond  issues  will  be  credited  to  a 
separate account and Castellum will keep a record of the purpose of 
the transfers on the account. If the account has a positive balance and 
unallocated  funds  are 
interest  bearing 
securities,  these  will  be  reported  and  their  intended  use  will  be 
explained. The level of transparency with regards to the management 
of  proceeds  is  very  strong  and  will  allow  investors  to  verify  that 
proceeds  have  only  been  allocated  towards  projects  that  meet  the 
eligibility criteria, as well as track temporary investments. Furthermore, 
internal  documentation  reviewed  by  Sustainalytics  of  the  tracking 
process makes it clear that the sale of any asset to which proceeds have 
been  allocated  will  immediately  result  in  the  balance  of  unallocated 
funds rising by an equivalent amount as that asset’s book value. As a 
result,  in  an  event  of  a  sale,  proceeds will  be  recycled  and  allocated 
towards new eligible assets. This will also be made visible to investors 
through the reporting process, as described below.  
 
Castellum will publish a yearly report describing the use of funds and 
their adherence to the eligibility criteria on its website. The report will 
contain a list of all eligible projects financed and information regarding 
each project’s adherence to the eligibility criteria will be provided. For 
financed projects, the report will disclose the aggregate market value 
and  the  sum  of  existing  external  debt  for  such  assets.    It  will  also 
disclose  the  sum  of  unallocated  proceeds,  including  any  short-term 
investments. This level of transparency ensures that investors will be 
made aware if any asset, originally included under the use of proceeds, 
is  sold  or  otherwise  impaired  over  the  term  of  the  bond,  and  the 
proceeds will be reallocated towards new eligible assets. In addition, as 
described under the use of proceeds, the reporting framework ensures 
that  if  the  design  stage  certification  for  new  assets  expires  over  the 
course of the term of the bond and the asset has not in the meantime 
received operational certification, this will be disclosed to investors and 
the  asset  will  no  longer  be  included  under  the  use  of  proceeds. 
Sustainalytics finds the reporting to be very investor friendly. 
 
Where Castellum is responsible for project operation, the reporting will 
also  contain  a  disclosure  of  a  select  set  of  asset-level  indicators  and 
measurements. 
consumption,  water 
consumption, GHG emissions, use of renewable energy, as well as the 
means of heating and cooling.5  
 

This 

includes 

energy 

 

5 The IEA estimates that space heating and cooling as well as hot water account for roughly half of global energy consumption in buildings. 

 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2016 
 
 

Given that it is publicly disclosed, audited by a third party, clearly lays 
out  adherence  with  the  eligibility  criteria,  and  provides  key  metrics 
regarding the environmental impact of the eligible assets, Castellum’s 
Green Bond reporting process is highly transparent and demonstrates 
market best practice. 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2016 
 
 

Appendix I: Real Estate Certification Systems - Miljöbyggnad Standards and BREEAM 
Standards Comparison 
 
 
 

BREEAM SE 

Miljöbyggnad 

Background 

Levels/Grades 

Swedish Certification System 
Used for residential and commercial 
buildings  
Used for new and existing buildings, 
first buildings certified in 2010  
 
Gold  
Silver (required by Castellum)  
Bronze  

Areas of Assessment  

Energy  
Indoor Environment  
Chemical Substances  
Specific Environmental Demands 

Procedure  

Buildings are examined on 15 indicators 
Application sent to Swedish Green 
Building Council 

British Certification System 
Adapted to Swedish regulations (BREEAM SE) 
used in Sweden since 2013 
Used for new, refurbished and extension of 
existing buildings 

Outstanding 
Excellent (required for all new assets under 
Castellum’s framework) 
Very Good (required for all existing assets 
under Castellum’s framework) 
Good  
Passed 
Management 
Health and Wellbeing  
Energy  
Transport  
Water 
Materials  
Waste 
Land Use and Ecology  
Pollution 
Innovation 
Buildings are examined on 50 indicators  
Application sent to Swedish Green Building 
Council (licensed by BRE Global) 

Indicators  
(see detailed list) 

Energy:  
Bought Energy 
Heating Power requirement  
Solar Heat Load  
Fraction of Energy Carriers  
 
Indoor Environment:  
Noise Protection 
Radon Content  
Ventilation Rates 

Management:  
Commissioning  
Construction Site Impacts  
Building User Guide  
Moisture Control  
 
Health and Wellbeing:  
Daylight  
Occupants thermal comfort  
Acoustics  

 

10 

© Sustainalytics 2016 
 
 

N2O to Indoor Air (from traffic) 
Moisture Prevention 
Thermal Climate Winter  
Thermal Climate Summer  
Daylight  
Legionella  
 
Materials and Chemicals: 
Documentation of materials 
Absence of hazardous substances 
 

 

Indoor Air and Water Quality  
Lighting  
 
Energy:  
CO2 emissions  
Low or zero carbon technologies  
Energy sub metering  
Energy efficient buildings system  
 
Transport:  
Public transport network connectivity 
Pedestrian and cyclist facilities  
Access to amenities  
Travel plans and information 
 
Water:  
Water consumption 
Leak detection 
Water re-usage and recycling  
 
Waste:  
Construction waste  
Recycled aggregates  
Recycling facilities  
 
Pollution:  
Refrigerant use and leakage  
Flood risk  
NOX emissions  
Watercourse pollution  
External light and noise pollution  
 
Land Use and Ecology:  
Site selection 
Protection of ecological features  
Mitigation/enhancement of ecological value  
 
Materials:  
Embodied life cycle impact of materials  
Material re-use  
Responsible sourcing  
Robustness  
Avoidance of hazardous substances  
 

11 

© Sustainalytics 2016 
 
 

Use in Sweden 

Rating 

 

 

Innovation: 
Exemplary performance levels  
Use of BREEAM Accredited Professionals 

Proportion of certified assessments under 
BREEAM and the Code for Sustainable Homes 
in Sweden 2012: 0,09%  
 
Proportion of certified assets under BREEAM 
New construction non-domestic by country 
2012: 0,2% 
Majority  of  BREEAM 
issues  are  tradable, 
meaning  that  the  client  can  pick  and  choose 
which  to  comply  with  in  order  to  build  their 
BREEAM  performance  score.  BREEAM  issues 
do have minimum standards, so to achieve a 
particular BREEAM rating a defined number of 
credits for that issue must be achieved.  
 
BREAAM has two stages, Interim Design Stage 
and  Post  Construction  Stage,  with  different 
assessment criteria.  
 
Environmental 
Rating 
Weightings and Minimum BREEAM standards 
determine final BREEAM rating. The areas are 
weighted with respect to each other. The sum 
of  the  points  obtained  in  each  area  are 
converted  to  the  %  obtained  of  the  total 
possible within each area, with the share then 
being  weighted  according 
total 
weighting of each area.  
 
For  BREEAM  very  good  a  score  of  55%  or 
above  must  be  reached.  For  Very  Good  a 
Minimum Number 1 must be reached for the 
issues “ 
 

benchmarks, 

to 

the 

 

12 

© Sustainalytics 2016 
 
 

Comparable Issues to 
reach M. Silver or 
BREEAM Very Good 

 
Daylight: Daylight factor of more than 
1,2%  
 
Thermal Climate Summer and Thermal 
Climate Winter: PPD smaller or equal to 
15%.  
 
Moisture Prevention: Moisture Proof 
design according to Bygga F 
 
Noise Protection: equal to or 50% above 
the Parameters Class B 
 
Absence of hazardous substances: Some 
POS above content limits occur and are 
listed  

Validity of 
Certification 

The certification is valid for up to 10 
years.  

is  not  a  minimum 
safety  planning 

 
Daylight:  is  not  a  minimum  requirement,  at 
least  80%  of  the  floor  area  is  adequately 
daylight with an average daylight illuminance 
of 200 lux for 2650 hours per year. (they also 
have a daylight factor 2,1 and 2,2)  
 
Occupants Thermal Comfort: is not a minimum 
requirement, to receive 1 credit PPD has to be 
assessed and cannot fall within levels defined 
as local dissatisfaction.  
Moisture  Control: 
requirement,  Moisture 
according to Bygga F or equivalent.  
 
Acoustics: no minimum requirement, for one 
credit all acoustic parameters for sound class 
C.  For  2  credits,  all  acoustic  parameters  for 
Sound Class B.  
 
Avoidance  of  hazardous  substances:  no 
minimum requirement, Construction Material 
Assessment  System  has  been  used  and 
substances are documented  
 
BREEAM  for  new  constructions  is  a one-time 
certification valid for the lifetime of a building.  
BREAAM  in-use  is  for  existing  buildings  and 
encompasses three different elements within 
the 
intrinsic  and 
management aspects of a building. It must be 
re-certified  annually.  Certificates  may  be 
renewed subject to confirmation by the client 
that no significant changes have been made to 
the  asset  or  the  occupying  organizations’ 
policies.  After  two  renewals  have  been 
completed, a full reassessment is required. 

scheme:  operational, 

 
 
 
 
 

 

13 

© Sustainalytics 2016 
 
 

Appendix II: ESG Analysis 
 
Industry Leader in ESG Performance: 
According  to  Sustainalytics’  ESG  research,  as  of  August  2016,  Castellum  is  a  leader  in  the  real  estate 
industry, and ranks in the top 2% among its peers. With respect to its environmental rating, Castellum 
ranks in the top 1% among its peers, indicating very strong environmental performance. 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Top 10 Companies 

1 Gecina SA 

2 City Developments Limited 

3 Unibail-Rodamco SE 

4 Icade 

5 British Land Co. plc 

6 Stockland Corporation 

7 Dexus Property Group 

8. Castellum AB 

9  Atrium Ljungberg AB 

10 Fabege AB 

 

 

 

Score 

94 

90 

89 

88 

87 

85 

84 

84 

82 

80 

 

 

14 

© Sustainalytics 2016 
 
 

 
 

environmental certification  
energy consumption (disclosed by 
absolute consumption in kWh and 
intensity in kWh per square meter) 
  water usage (disclosed by absolute 

 

 

consumption in m3 and intensity in m3 
per square meter) 
carbon footprint (disclosed by 
absolute emissions in tons and 
intensity in tons per square meter) 
purchased renewable energy 
(disclosed by absolute consumption in 
kWh and intensity in KWh per square 
meter, and % renewable energy of the 
total purchased energy) 

  main method of heating and cooling 

Means of Disclosure 

☐ 

☒ 

☒ 

Information published in financial report 

☐ 

Information published in sustainability report 

☐  Other (please specify):  

Information published in ad hoc 
documents 
Reporting reviewed (if yes, please specify which parts of the reporting are subject to external 
review): A third party appointed by Castellum will report whether the Green Bond net 
proceeds have been allocated to the projects that Castellum outlines in its reporting and 
comply with the relevant eligibility criteria, and a signed document will be provided on 
Castellum’s website. 

 
Where appropriate, please specify name and date of publication in the useful links section. 
 
USEFUL LINKS (e.g. to review provider methodology or credentials, to issuer’s documentation, etc.) 
www.castellum.se 
 
SPECIFY OTHER EXTERNAL REVIEWS AVAILABLE, IF APPROPRIATE 
Type(s) of Review provided: 

☐ 

☐ 

Certification 

Rating 

☐ 

☐ 

☐ 

Consultancy (incl. 2nd opinion) 

Verification / Audit 

Other (please specify): 

 
Review provider(s): N/A 
 
 
 

Date: 

 

19 

© Sustainalytics 2016 
 
 

 

ABOUT SUSTAINALYTICS 
Sustainalytics is the largest independent provider of sustainability 
research, analysis, and services to investors. We serve over 250 
institutional investors which include some of the world's largest 
asset owners and asset managers. Through over 20 years of 
experience serving the responsible investment (RI) market, we have 
gained a reputation for providing high-quality ESG research 
solutions and excellent client service. 

Sustainalytics is headed by seasoned professionals in the field of 
business, finance, and sustainability, with a wealth of experience in 
the Responsible Investment area. After more than 20 years of local 
experience and expertise in the Responsible Investment (RI) market 
Sustainalytics has developed a comprehensive understanding of 
trends and best practices and a solid process to assist organisations 
in integrating ESG considerations into their policies and strategies. 
We have worked with some of the world’s financial institutions 
including pension plans, investment managers and banks providing 
customised support to help them achieve their RI objectives. Clients 
include ABN AMRO, APG, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank, ING 
Bank, Lombard Odier, Lloyds Bank, Triodos Bank, UBS and over 250 
other financial institutions and organisations. 

Sustainalytics now has a staff of 250 employees globally, including 
over 120 analysts, with operations in Amsterdam, Boston, 
Bucharest, Frankfurt, New York, Paris, London, Singapore, Sydney, 
Timisoara, and Toronto, and representation in Brussels and 
Washington DC. 

In 2015, Sustainalytics was named the 
Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm 
by GlobalCapital. In December 2014, for 
the third year in a row, Sustainalytics 
was named best sustainable and 
responsible investment research firm in 
the Independent Research in 
Responsible Investment (IRRI) Survey, 
conducted by Thomson Reuters and 

SRI-CONNECT.  
 
 
 

 

20 

© Sustainalytics 2016 
 
 

 
 
Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
 
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 
 

 

21 

