 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 COUNCIL OF EUROPE 
DEVELOPMENT BANK  

SOCIAL INCLUSION BOND 

 

FRAMEWORK 

SECOND OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

 

March 20th 2017 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 

 

Catarina da Silva (Amsterdam) 

Floriana Cau (Paris) 

Senior Advisor, Advisory Services 
catarina.dasilva@sustainalytics.com 
(+31) 20 205 0045 
 
 
 
 

Advisor, Institutional Relations 
floriana.cau@sustainalytics.com 
(+33) 18 488 0644 
 
 
 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

 

1. 

Introduction 

2.  Sustainalytics’ opinion 

Section 1: Assessment of CEB’s social mandate 
Section 2: Opinion on CEB’s Social Inclusion Bond Framework 
Conclusion 

APPENDIX I:  ICMA’s External Review Form 

APPENDIX II: SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

2 

2 
2 
3 
7 

8 

14 

1 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

1. INTRODUCTION 

 
Founded in 1956, the Council of Europe Development Bank (CEB) is a multilateral development bank with 
an exclusively social mandate. Through the provision of financing and technical expertise for projects with 
a social impact in its 41 member states, CEB promotes social cohesion and strengthens social integration 
in Europe. CEB contributes to the implementation of socially oriented investment projects through three 
sectoral lines of action: Sustainable and inclusive growth; Integration of refugees, displaced persons and 
migrants; and Climate action: developing adaptation and mitigation measures.  
 
In alignment with its social mandate, CEB has developed a Social Inclusion Bond Framework1 in accordance 
with which it intends to issue Social Inclusion Bonds. Proceeds of the bonds will be used to finance or 
refinance existing and future loans from the following three CEB’s sectors of action: 

  Social housing for low-income persons;  
  Education and vocational training;   
  Supporting micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs) for the creation and preservation 

of viable jobs. 

 
CEB has engaged Sustainalytics to provide a second opinion on its Social Inclusion Bond Framework. As 
part  of  this  engagement  process,  Sustainalytics  held  conversations  with  various  members  of  CEB’s 
management  and  treasury  teams  to  understand  the  social  impact  of  CEB’s  lending,  planned  use  of 
proceeds, management of proceeds and reporting aspects of CEB’s Social Inclusion Bonds. Sustainalytics 
also reviewed relevant public and internal documents. This document contains Sustainalytics’ opinion on 
CEB’s Social Inclusion Bond Framework and should be read in conjunction with that framework. 
 
 

2. SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION  

 
Section 1: Assessment of CEB’s social mandate 
 
CEB: a financial institution with policies aligned with a clear social mandate 
As a European development bank with a social mandate, CEB takes up some of the most pressing social 
challenges facing its member states. Aid to migrants and refugees was at the forefront of CEB’s activities 
in the second half of 2015. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that CEB contributes to improving public services 
and social welfare for Europe’s most vulnerable populations, by helping them access social and affordable 
housing,  as  well  as  by  investing  to  boost  jobs  through  its  support  to  micro,  small  and  medium-sized 
enterprises (MSMEs). In 2015, the year of the COP21, CEB also continued to fund environmentally pressing 
issues, such as climate change measures.  
 
CEB has ten focus investment areas, “sectors of action”: (i) Social housing for low-income persons; (ii) 
Education and vocational training; (iii) Supporting MSMEs for the creation and preservation of viable jobs;  

 
1 Available at http://www.coebank.org/en/investor-relations/ 

 

 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

(iv)  Aid  to  refugees,  migrants,  displaced  persons  and  other  vulnerable  groups;  (v)  Improving  living 
conditions in urban and rural areas; (vi) Natural or ecological disasters; (vii) Protection of the environment; 
(viii) Protection and rehabilitation of the historic and cultural heritage; (ix) Health; and (x) Administrative 
and judicial infrastructure. CEB’s Social Inclusion Bonds will focus on the first three areas mentioned above 
(i, ii, iii). Based on these focus areas and on what is considered a strong social mandate, Sustainalytics 
believes that CEB is well positioned to issue Social Inclusion Bonds.    
 
In addition, Sustainalytics considers CEB’s policies and processes for selecting investments to be strong 
and  aligned  with  the  mandate.  CEB  has  implemented  an  Environmental  and  Social  Safeguards  Policy 
(ESSP), which covers all projects and borrowers and clarifies the way in which social safeguard issues are 
addressed,  ensuring  consistency  with  international  good  practice.  This  policy  is  intended  to  provide  a 
better understanding of how CEB addresses environmental and social issues and what it expects from its 
borrowers in that respect. The bank’s policies cover a comprehensive list of criteria for loans’ selection 
and exclusion in line with CEB’s priorities and internationally accepted human rights and environmental 
standards (e.g. Council of Europe Conventions). 
 
 
Section 2: Opinion on CEB’s Social Inclusion Bond Framework 
 
Use of Proceeds that have positive social impacts and advance the Sustainable Development Goals 
Proceeds of the bonds will be directed towards investments in the following three CEB’s sectors of action: 

  Social housing for low-income persons;  
  Education and vocational training; and  
  Supporting MSMEs for the creation and preservation of viable jobs. 

 
Overall, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the proceeds from the Social Inclusion Bonds will have clear 
positive social impacts, contributing to: 

- 
- 
- 

the social inclusion of vulnerable populations in member states, 
achieving CEB’s targets along its “sectors of action”, and  
achieving  UN  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  1,  4,  5  and  11,  as  well  as  advancing  the 
European Commission’s Europe 2020 Plan for “smart, sustainable, inclusive growth”2. 

 
Below, Sustainalytics provides an opinion on the positive social impact of the three focus areas of CEB’s 
Social Inclusion Bonds and how these align with sustainable development priorities. 
 
1.  Social housing for low-income persons 
 
CEB finances projects for the renovation, construction or refurbishing of housing and for the conversion 
of buildings into housing so as to provide adequate housing for low-income persons (as defined by the 
national  legislation  in  CEB’s  member  states).  Considered  eligibility  criteria  include,  for  instance,  the 

 
2 The Europe 2020 strategy designed as the successor to the Lisbon strategy, adopted by the European Council on 17 June 2010 is the EU's common agenda 
for the next decade. It puts emphasis on smart, sustainable and inclusive growth that can overcome the structural weaknesses in Europe's economy, 
improve its competitiveness and productivity and underpin a sustainable social market economy. 
http://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/web/europe-2020-indicators/europe-2020-strategy/context  

 

 

3 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

income level of the tenants (which must be below a certain threshold) and the physical characteristics of 
the housing. 
 
CEB’s  loans  supporting  housing  for  low-income  persons  align  well  with  internationally  recognised 
sustainability priorities, such as the SDGs, as well as with European priorities, such as the Europe 2020 
Plan, and address a growing need for affordable housing for vulnerable populations across the continent. 
This sector of action directly addresses the following SDGs and related targets: 
 
SDG 1: End poverty in all its forms everywhere 
Target 1.2: By 2030, reduce at least by half the proportion of men, women and children of all ages living 
in poverty in all its dimensions according to national definitions;  
Target 1.4: By 2030, ensure that all men and women, in particular the poor and the vulnerable, have equal 
rights to economic resources, as well as access to basic services, ownership and control over land and 
other  forms  of  property,  inheritance,  natural  resources,  appropriate  new  technology  and  financial 
services, including microfinance.  
 
SDG 11: Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable 
Target 11.1: By 2030, ensure access for all to adequate, safe and affordable housing and basic services 
and upgrade slums. 
 
In  the  EU,  national  governments  develop  their  own  housing  policies.  Nevertheless,  many  of  the  EU 
Member States face similar challenges: for example, how to renew housing stocks and how to help young 
disadvantaged groups to access the housing market. Furthermore, housing is steadily becoming a major 
expenditure  for  European  households,  driven  by  ongoing  economic  distresses  across  the  continent, 
hurting the poorest the most. In 2015, an 11.3 % share of the EU-28 population lived in households that 
spent  40%  or more  of  their  equivalised  disposable  income  on  housing3.  With  housing  investment  low 
across Europe, the available stock of affordable housing is not sufficient to meet the increasing demand. 
CEB’s financing will contribute positively to addressing this challenge.  
 
 
2.  Education and vocational training 
 
CEB will finance education and vocational training projects, and the related infrastructure. Specifically, 
the  Social  Inclusion  Bonds  will  target  training  and  education  for  the  unemployed  and  disadvantaged 
populations, vulnerable groups, such as migrants, minorities, and people with disabilities. 
 
Education is a fundamental social right embedded in the Council of Europe’s principles, bringing significant 
benefits  to  society.  An  educated  and  skilled  workforce  is  essential  for  a  country’s  competitiveness, 
particularly in today’s knowledge economy. Projects eligible for finance under CEB’s Social Inclusion Bond 
Framework would address a number of priorities set out in the UN SDGs: 
 

 
3 Eurostat, Housing Statistics, http://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/statistics-explained/index.php/Housing_statistics, accessed March 2017 

 

 

4 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

SDG 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for 
all 
Target  4.3:  By  2030,  ensure  equal  access  for  all  women  and  men  to  affordable  and  quality  technical, 
vocational and tertiary education, including university;  
Target  4.4:  By  2030,  substantially  increase  the  number  of  youth  and  adults  who  have  relevant  skills, 
including technical and vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship;  
Target 4.a: Build and upgrade education facilities that are child, disability and gender sensitive and provide 
safe, non-violent, inclusive and effective learning environments for all. 
 
SDG 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls 
Target 5.5: Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all 
levels of decision-making in political, economic and public life. 
 
 
3.  Supporting MSMEs for the creation and preservation of viable jobs 
 
CEB will provide loans to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs), including those exercising 
craftsmanship/artisan activities or small family-owned enterprises engaged in regular economic activity. 
To reach MSMEs effectively, loans to MSMEs can be provided via licenced financial intermediaries (FIs) 
selected  by  CEB.  Eligible  MSMEs  cannot  have  involvement  in  certain  activities  and  sectors  that  are 
excluded  from  CEB’s  financing  activity.  A  detailed  description  of  these  activities  is  presented  in  CEB’s 
Social  Inclusion  Bond  Framework  and  includes  activities  related  to  manufacture  of  tobacco  products, 
manufacture of weapons and ammunition, gambling activities, among others. 
 
Financing remains a critical issue for the development of MSMEs. Limited access to funds constitutes a 
key barrier to further development of this category of enterprises. Two positive social impacts of financing 
MSMEs are the creation and preservation of jobs that will strengthen competitiveness, and the promotion 
of  migrants’  integration.  CEB’s  Social  Inclusion  Bonds  will  be  particularly  impactful  because  CEB  will 
prioritise support for smaller MSMEs, as well as those with limited, less favourable, or even no access to 
credit.  This  includes  in  particular  start-ups  and  enterprises  owned  by  women,  by  minorities  and  by 
vulnerable groups.  
 
The European Commission considers SMEs and entrepreneurship as key to ensuring economic growth, 
innovation, job creation, and social integration. SMEs are a very important part of the economy, as they 
represent around 99 % of all enterprises and employ almost 70% of the workforce in Europe4. CEB’s Social 
Inclusion Bonds would help improve access to finance for these enterprises, which constitute a vital part 
of Europe’s economy. Additionally, this sector of action supports SDG 5 (discussed earlier) by supporting 
equal opportunities for women, namely by improving access to finance.  
 
 
 
 

 
4 Annual Report on European SMEs 2014/2015, European Commission, November 2015 

 

 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Alignment with the Social Bond Guidance 
Sustainalytics has determined that the CEB Social Inclusion Bond Framework aligns with the four pillars of 
ICMA’s Social Bond Guidance, 2016.  
 

Use of 
proceeds 

Process for 
project 
selection an 
evaluation 

Proceeds  of  the  bonds  will  be  directed  towards  investments  from  the  following  three  CEB’s 
sectors of action: Social housing for low-income persons; Education and vocational training; and 
Supporting MSMEs for the creation and preservation of viable jobs. 
Overall, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the proceeds from the Social Inclusion Bonds will 
have clear positive social impacts, contributing to the social inclusion of vulnerable populations 
in  member  states,  achieving  UN  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs  1,  4,  5  and  11),  and 
advancing  the  European  Commission’s  Europe  2020  Plan  for  “smart,  sustainable,  inclusive 
growth. 

The loans financed through the proceeds  of CEB’s Social Inclusion Bonds will be evaluated for 
financial  viability  and  for  alignment  with  the  eligibility  criteria  of  the  CEB  Loan  and  Project 
Financing Policy. CEB has a notably strong process for project evaluation and selection, supported 
by  strong  policies  that  include  social  and  environmental  criteria.  Furthermore,  social  and 
environmental impact assessment is also a part of the selection process.  
Eligible Social Loans will be determined by CEB’s Monitoring department, which will ensure their 
alignment with its Social Inclusion Bond Framework. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that CEB has 
robust eligibility and exclusion criteria for the selection process of the Eligible Social Loans to be 
financed by its Social Inclusion Bonds. 

Management 
of proceeds 

Proceeds from the Social Inclusion Bonds will be allocated directly to existing or new loans. CEB 
has confirmed that at the time of issuance, it expects to have a sufficient number of existing loans 
that will meet the eligibility criteria. In case this does not occur, management of proceeds pending 
allocation is carried out in line with market practice. 

Reporting 

Allocation Reporting 
Sustainalytics considers that CEB’s allocation reporting is aligned with best market practices. CEB 
commits to publishing a Social Inclusion Bond Report in the calendar year following the issuance, 
which  will  include  information  on  the  allocation  of  proceeds  by  providing  a  summary  of  the 
allocation per sector of action, per year of disbursement and per country. This information will 
be externally reviewed and will be publicly available on CEB’s website. 
 
Impact Reporting 
Regarding  impact  reporting,  CEB  has  committed  to  reporting  on  social  impact  indicators  in 
aggregate  for  each  eligible  sector  of  action.  Sustainalytics  considers  that  CEB  has  robust  due 
diligence processes to collect meaningful impact information concerning the Eligible Loans, and 
that CEB’s Social Inclusion Report to be published in the calendar year following the issuance, is 
in  line  with  best  market  practices.  However,  Sustainalytics  recognizes  that  for  some  impact 
indicators, namely ‘number of jobs created’, a direct impact stemming from the investment is 
difficult to correlate given that other socio-economic factors will also influence this metric. Lastly, 
Sustainalytics encourages CEB to advance its impact reporting by providing further insights into 
the type of vulnerable beneficiaries (e.g. migrants, women, etc.) receiving support. 
 

 
An overview of these four pillars is also provided in Appendix I: Green Bond Programme External Review 
Form. 

 

 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Conclusion 
By  issuing  a  Social  Inclusion  Bond  to  finance  socio-economic  development  in  Europe,  CEB  is  acting  in 
accordance  with  its  social  mandate,  and  is  capitalizing  on  its  strong  track-record  of  executing  social 
investments in Europe’s communities. 
 
Given the global and regional European context described in the Second Opinion, the eligibility criteria 
established by CEB for the proceeds of its Social Inclusion Bonds are aligned with European priorities for 
sustainable development. Specifically, the promotion of lending to smaller SMEs, and providing housing 
and  education  for  underprivileged  communities  contribute  towards  meeting  Europe’s  development 
challenges.  Additionally,  the  socio-economic  development  promoted  by  CEB’s  lending  activities  is  an 
important step in advancing a number of global development priorities contained in the UN SDGs. 
 
Based on the above points, Sustainalytics considers CEB’s Social Inclusion Bond Framework to be robust, 
credible and transparent, and in alignment with the four pillars of ICMA’s Social Bond Guidance.  
 

 

 

 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

APPENDIX II: SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics  is  an  independent  ESG  and  corporate  governance  research,  ratings  and  analysis  firm 
supporting  investors  around  the  world  with  the  development  and  implementation  of  responsible 
investment  strategies. With 13 offices globally, Sustainalytics partners with institutional investors who 
integrate  environmental,  social  and  governance  information  and  assessments  into  their  investment 
processes.  Today,  the  firm  has  more  than  300  staff  members,  including  170  analysts  with  varied 
multidisciplinary  expertise  of  more  than  40  sectors.  Through  the  IRRI  survey,  investors  selected 
Sustainalytics as the best independent responsible investment research firm for three consecutive years, 
2012 through 2014 and in 2015, Sustainalytics was named among the top three firms for both ESG and 
Corporate Governance research. The firm was also named the Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
Global Capital in 2015. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com  
 
Sustainalytics 
info@sustainalytics.com  
www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

14 

