 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 CITY DEVELOPMENTS 

LIMITED  

GREEN BOND 

 

 

 

 
 
 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

April 5th, 2017 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 

Trisha Taneja (Toronto) 

Catalina Secreteanu (Sydney) 

Advisor, Advisory Services 
trisha.taneja@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 647 317 3695 

Associate Director, Institutional Relations 
catalina.secreteanu@sustainalytics.com 
(+61) 2 8015 5651 

 
 

Vikram Puppala  

 
 

Vikram Puppala  

Manager,  

© Sustainalytics 2017 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

1. 

Introduction 

2.  Overview of Issuer 

3.  Framework overview 
3.1  Use of Proceeds 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
3.3  Management of Proceeds 
3.4  Reporting 

4  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 

Conclusion 

APPENDICES 

Appendix 1: Sample Eligible Retrofit Projects Financed through Loan 
Appendix 2: Description of Potential New Eligible Projects 
Appendix 3: Sustainalytics’ ESG Assessment of CDL 
 
Appendix 4: Requirements for BCA Green Mark Platinum Certification 
Appendix 5: Adherence to Green Bond Principles 2016 

13 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

1 

3 

3 

4 
4 
5 
5 
5 

6 
9 

10 
10 
12 
13 

14 
17 

23 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

1. INTRODUCTION 
 
City  Developments  Limited  (CDL)  is  planning  to  issue  multiple  green  bonds  that  aim  to  fund  and 
refinance the retrofit of Republic Plaza, its flagship building in Singapore. CDL has engaged Sustainalytics 
to provide a second opinion on its green bond framework and the bonds’ environmental credentials. As 
part of this engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of CDL’s management 
team to understand the sustainability impact of their business processes and planned use of proceeds 
for the green bond framework. Sustainalytics also reviewed relevant public and internal documents. This 
document contains two sections: Framework Overview – summary of CDL’s Green Bond framework; and 
Sustainalytics’ Opinion – an opinion on the framework. 
 
2. OVERVIEW OF ISSUER 
 
City Developments Limited operates as a listed property arm of Hong Leong Group Singapore. CDL and 
its subsidiaries engage in the development and investment of real estate properties, and ownership and 
management of hotels, as well as the provision of hospitality solutions.  Building on its track record of 
over  50  years  in  real  estate  development,  investment  and  management,  CDL  has  developed  growth 
platforms in five key international markets – China, United Kingdom (UK), United States (US), Japan and 
Australia.  The  company  is  also  leveraging  its  stable  of  prime  assets  and  growing  its  real  estate  funds 
management  business.  It  currently  has  over  $3.5  billion  in  funds  under  management.  CDL  has 
operations in Asia, Europe, North America, New Zealand, and Australia. The company was  founded in 
1963 and is headquartered in Singapore, Singapore. 
 
CDL  states  that  sustainability  has  been  integrated  into  its  vision  and  mission  to  create  business  value 
and achieve long-term growth for the company. CDL states a belief that an embedded commitment to 
sustainability complements the company’s business strategy. The company states that its commitment 
to sustainability is reflected in its vision of “conserving as it constructs”. To further its commitment to 
sustainability, and to contribute to Singapore’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reduction goals, CDL is 
planning  to  issue  multiple  green  bonds  to  fund  and  refinance  the  retrofit  of  its  flagship  building, 
Republic Plaza and other possible green initiatives.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

3 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

3. FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 
This section presents CDL’s green bond framework for the use of proceeds, the process for project 
selection, the management of proceeds, and reporting. 
 
3.1   Use of Proceeds 
Proceeds from the first bond issued under this framework will be used to refinance retrofit projects as 
mentioned in point 1. Proceeds from all future issuances will be used to finance new retrofit projects as 
mentioned in point 2.   
 
For the current issuance, the proceeds of the green bond will be allocated towards: 
 

1.  Repayment of S$100 million loan extended by CDL to CDL Properties (CDLP), which financed 

retrofit and upgrading projects for Republic Plaza  
A  sample  list  of  recent  retrofit  projects  from  years  2010-2015  that  were  funded  through  the 
loan, and the estimated expenditure per project is available in Appendix 1.  
 

For future issuances, the proceeds of the green bond will be allocated towards: 
 

2.  Funding projects for new retrofits of Republic Plaza  

A description of potential new projects that may be funded is available in Appendix 2.  
 

All funded and refinanced projects must meet the eligibility criteria outlined below. 
 
Eligibility Criteria 
To be eligible for the green bond proceeds, the projects funded must meet one or more of the following 
eligibility criteria:  

1.  Expenditures related to the installation or upgrade of equipment that reduces energy 

consumption of Republic Plaza; 
 

2.  Expenditures related to the installation or upgrade of equipment that reduces water 

consumption of Republic Plaza; 

 

3.  Expenditures related to the installation or upgrade of equipment that reduces food and general 

waste from Republic Plaza. 
 

Context:  In  its  2016  sustainability  report,  CDL  states  that  it  considers  carbon  emissions,  energy  use, 
water stewardship, and waste and resource management as four key environmental issues that create 
measurable  and  sustainable  value  for  its  business  and  stakeholders.  Accordingly,  CDL  maintains  the 
following targets that are aligned with the eligibility criteria of its green bond framework: 
 

  Reduce carbon emissions intensity by 22% by 2020 and 25% by 2030 (from baseline year 2007) 
  Reduce energy intensity by 22% by 2020 and 25% by 2030 (from baseline year 2007) 
  Reduce water intensity by 22% by 2020 and 25% by 2030 (from baseline year 2007) 

 
 

4 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
Selection process for current issuance 
Eligible projects below S$1 million will be  selected for  refinancing through  bond proceeds  by the  CEO 
and CFO. Projects over S$1 million will be selected by the Tender Committee, which is made up of the 
Group General Manager, CFO, and CEO. 
 
Selection process for future green bond issuances 
The  selection  of  eligible  projects  will  be  overseen  by  the  Property  and  Facilities  Management  and 
Sustainability departments of CDL. 
 
All projects selected for funding through bond proceeds will be selected based on compliance with the 
eligibility  criteria.  Additional  factors  such  as  applicability  to  Green  Mark  certification,  environmental 
impact, size, and tenant needs may also be considered.  
 

3.3        Management of Proceeds  
Management of proceeds for current issuance 
The first bond issuance under this framework will be issued by CDLP, a subsidiary of CDL. The proceeds 
from this issuance will be used to repay a S$100 million loan from CDL that was used to finance eligible 
retrofit projects for Republic Plaza. All proceeds will be allocated towards loan payment immediately at 
issuance.  
 
Management of proceeds for future issuances 
For  any  future  issuances  based  on  this  framework,  allocation  of  proceeds  to  eligible  projects  will 
managed and tracked by Group Finance Accounts using a spreadsheet. CDL has disclosed that proceeds 
from future green bonds will be temporarily held in cash by CDL, until allocated to eligible projects.  
 
3.4    Reporting  
Allocation Reporting 
CDL has committed to disclosing allocation of proceeds publicly on a project portfolio basis. CDL has also 
committed  to  verification  of  annual  proceeds  by  its  auditor  in  appointment  that  year.  For  the  first 
issuance, given that all proceeds will be allocated immediately, allocation reporting will be disclosed all 
at once at the end of 2017. For future issuances, allocation reporting will be publicly disclosed annually, 
until full allocation of the bond.  
 
Impact Reporting 
CDL  will  report  on  the  impact  of  the  bond  by  disclosing  energy  saved,  water  saved,  or  tons  of  waste 
reduced  on  a  project  portfolio  basis.  CDL  will  continue  to  report  on  impact  in  this  format  annually, 
throughout the term of the bond. Impact reporting will be disclosed publicly, together with allocation 
reporting.  
 
 
 

 
 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

4  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
 
Importance of carbon emissions, energy, and water management in CDL’s sustainability strategy  
Sustainalytics’ research assesses CDL as an industry leader in ESG performance (see Appendix 3). CDL’s 
strategic approach for sustainability identifies six key sustainability aspects as material to their business- 
Environment, Employee Relations, Corporate Governance and Risk Management, Stakeholder Relations, 
and Community. CDL’s environmental commitment, including its policies and strategies, is informed by 
this identification of environment as a materially important sustainability issue for the company.  
 
CDL has a strong  overall  environmental commitment, as seen by its  environmental policy  and targets. 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the strength of CDL’s policy is demonstrated through (i) the approval 
of its policy  by the  board of directors (ii) commitment  to consult  with stakeholders on environmental 
issues (ii) and commitment to report regularly on established targets.  
 
With  respect  to  targets,  the  company  has  set  specific  objectives  for  the  period  2016-2020,  and  long-
term goals for 2030  that  align with the  UN Sustainable Development  Goals (SDGs).  It lists  measurable 
targets  for  its  set  objectives,  and  reports  on  performance  in  each  year.  CDL  senior  management  is 
obliged to monitor the overall progress towards targets. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that reporting 
on  targets  and  performance  is  indicative  of  the  priority  the  company  assigns  to  achieving  results. 
Specifically, CDL’s targets in the areas of carbon emissions, energy management, and water stewardship 
indicate the importance of these issues in CDL’s sustainability strategy, and demonstrates alignment of 
the  green  bond  framework  with  CDL’s  strategic  priorities.    Details  on  CDL  targets  in  the  areas  of 
emissions reduction, energy efficiency, and water use, and reported performance against these targets 
are provided in Table 1.  
 
Table 1: CDL Targets on Carbon Emissions, Energy Management, and Water Stewardship 

Area 

Target 

Carbon emissions  

Energy management 

Water Stewardship 

carbon 

Reduce 
emissions 
intensity  by  22%  by  2020  and 
25%  by  2030 
(from  2007 
baseline) 
Reduce energy intensity by 22% 
by 2020 and 25% by 2030 (from 
2007 baseline) 
Reduce  water  intensity  by  22% 
by 2020 and 25% by 2030 (from 
2007 baseline) 

Reported  performance  against 
target 
Reduced 
emissions 
intensity  by  19%  in  2015  (from 
2007 baseline) 

carbon 

in  2015 

Reduced energy use intensity by 
27% 
(from  2007 
baseline) 
Reduced  water  use  intensity  by 
17% 
(from  2007 
baseline) 

in  2015 

 
Given  CDL’s  integration  of  its  environmental  policy  in  organizational  actions  through  reporting  on 
targets,  and  the  alignment  of  CDL’s  green  bond  framework  with  its  overall  environmental  strategy, 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that CDL is well positioned to issue green bonds.  

 
 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Contribution of use of proceeds to Republic Plaza’s Green Mark Platinum certification 
CDL has a track record of constructing and managing green buildings. As of the end of 2016, CDL had 87 
Green  Mark  certified  developments  and  office  interiors  awarded  by  the  Building  and  Construction 
Authority.  Sustainalytics’  ESG  research  also  shows  that  the  company  seeks  Green  Mark  Gold  PLUS 
certification for all new developments, which is beyond the mandatory Green Mark certification.  
 
Specifically, with regards to Republic Plaza, CDL’s retrofit projects have resulted in the building receiving 
a Green Mark  Platinum award.  Green Mark is a sustainable building certification scheme  launched by 
Singapore’s Building and Construction Authority (BCA) in 2005. The Green Mark certification is offered 
on  four  levels-  Certified,  Gold,  Gold PLUS,  and  Platinum.  BCA  assigns  a  level of Green Mark  certification 
based  on the  sustainability  performance  of  buildings  in  five  key  areas-  (i)  Energy  efficiency,  (ii) Water 
efficiency, (iii) Environmental protection, (iv) Indoor environmental quality, and (v) Green features and 
innovation. The minimum performance requirements for Green Mark Platinum buildings are detailed in 
Appendix  4.  Additionally,  Green  Mark  buildings  certified  at  all  levels  are  required  to  be  re-assessed 
every three years to maintain the Green Mark status. 
 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that using bond proceeds for eligible retrofit projects will contribute to 
achieving  and  maintaining  the  energy  and  water  efficiency  requirements  of  a  Green  Mark  Platinum 
certification.  
 
In addition, CDL actively engages with its tenants so as to share best practices and encourage them to 
take up environmentally friendly habits through various initiatives such as the Green Lease Partnership 
Program.   For example, the  program aims to provide support to commercial tenants  in reducing their 
energy consumption and environmental footprint. To enable tenants to better control and manage their 
energy  usage,  a  real-time  digital  energy  and  carbon  footprint  monitoring  portal  was  launched  in 
partnership  with  Tuas  Power.  As  an  incentive  to  encourage  greater  energy  conservation  amongst 
tenants, CDL further introduced a 1% electricity rebate for commercial tenants who attain 2% savings 
over  the  previous  quarter’s  bill.  CDL  sets  a  target  of  100%  tenant  participation  for  this  program. 
Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  such  additional  tenant  focussed  initiatives  are  demonstrative  of 
CDL’s  commitment  to  promote  greater  environmental  responsibility  in  the  areas  of  carbon  emissions 
and energy management.   
 
Importance of green real estate in climate change mitigating in Singapore 
As a low-lying island state of 719.2 km² with no natural resources, Singapore has to accommodate not 
only  housing  and  commercial  centres,  but  also  power  plants,  reservoirs,  air/seaports  and  industries 
within  city  boundaries.  Singapore  has  one  of  the  highest  population  densities  in  the  world  (7,797 
persons per km2).1  
 
Singapore is also alternative energy disadvantaged. The relatively flat land, low wind speeds and lack of 
geothermal resources limit Singapore’s access to alternative energy options such as hydro-electric, wind 
or  geothermal  power.  Given  Singapore’s  small  land  area  and  high  population  density,  the  risks  of 

 
1 http://www.singstat.gov.sg/statistics/latest-data#16 

 
 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

nuclear energy currently outweigh the potential benefits. Due to the same reasons, although Singapore 
is located in the tropics, it is difficult to harness solar energy in a significant way. Singapore therefore is 
dependent on fossil fuels.  
 
Despite  this  dependence,  in  2009,  Singapore  pledged  to  reduce  emissions  by  16%  from  business-as-
usual (BAU) levels by 2020. In 2015, building on its earlier commitment, Singapore pledged to reduce its 
emissions intensity (CO2e/S$GDP) by 36% from 2005 levels by 2030, and stabilize emissions with the aim 
of peaking around 20302. To reach the targets, Singapore made a policy choice to reduce its greenhouse 
gas (GHG) footprint by switching from fuel oil to natural gas for electricity generation. Today, over 95% 
of  electricity  is  generated  from  natural  gas2,  which  also  means  that  the  capacity  to  further  reduce 
emissions by substituting fuel oil with natural gas is reaching the limit.  
 
Therefore,  energy  conservation  becomes  top  priority,  which  was  also  highlighted  in  Singapore’s  INDC 
after  the  COP21.  With  buildings  (including  households)  accounting  for  49%  of  the  total  electricity 
consumption3 at end-use level in Singapore (and 23% of GHGs2), promoting energy efficiency in buildings 
is an effective way to achieve energy conservation and help address climate change. The Climate Action 
Plan, announced by Singapore’s National Climate Change Secretariat (NCCS)2 in 2015, sets up a series of 
strategic plans and policies to improve energy efficiency in the building environment. The government 
aims at achieving BCA Green Mark4 standards for 80% of buildings by 2030. 
 
Given  this  scenario,  it  is  clear  that  real  estate  companies  have  a  large  role  to  play  in  Singapore  in 
mitigating climate change. CDL’s efforts to improve energy efficiencies of its properties is a step in the 
right direction and strongly in line with the government of Singapore’s plans. 
 
Importance of water management in Singapore 
Singapore  is  officially  classified  by  the  World  Resources  Institute  as  one  of  the  countries  with  the 
“highest water stress” in the world5. Current water demand in Singapore is about 430 million gallons a 
day,  of  which  45%  is  for  domestic  use.  By  2060  water  demand  will  almost  double  from today’s  level, 
estimated by Singapore’s National Water Agency (PUB) 6. However, Singapore has no freshwater lakes or 
aquifers.  Currently  over  40%  of  Singapore’s  water  supply  is  imported  from  the  Johor  River,  the  main 
river  in  the  Malaysia  state  of  Johor;  20%  is  contributed  by  the  advanced  rainwater  capture  systems 
(Local Catchment); 30% added by grey water reuses (NEWater) and 10% produced by desalination5. In 
addition to the lack of natural water resources, climate change imposes significant risks on Singapore’s 
water supply, especially due to the intensity of weather variability. Periods of drought can reduce the 
 
2 https://www.nccs.gov.sg/sites/nccs/files/NCCS_Mitigation_FA_webview%2027-06-16.pdf  
3 https://www.nccs.gov.sg/sites/nccs/files/Roadmap_BEE_20140729.pdf  
4 The BCA Green Mark is a green building rating system to evaluate a building for its environmental impact and performance, launched in 
January 2005 by the Building and Construction Authority (BCA) under the Ministry of National Development. It is also endorsed and supported 
by the National Environment Agency. The assessment identifies the specific energy efficient and environment-friendly features and practices 
incorporated in the building projects. Points are awarded for incorporating energy efficient and environment-friendly features which are better 
than normal practice. Depending on the overall assessment and point scoring, the building will be certified to have met the BCA Green Mark 
Platinum, GoldPlus, Gold or Certified rating. Certified Green Mark buildings are required to be re-assessed every three years to maintain the 
Green Mark status. New buildings certified will subsequently be re-assessed under the existing buildings criteria. 
5 http://www.wri.org/sites/default/files/aqueduct_coutnry_rankings_010914.pdf  
6 https://www.pub.gov.sg/watersupply/singaporewaterstory  

 
 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

reliability of water supply from the Johor River and local catchments, while sudden episodes of intense 
rainfall could overwhelm the city’s drainage system and lead to flash floods. Moreover, water usage in 
the Johor state of Malaysia is increasing substantially because of the fast industrialization and the rapid 
expanding  of  plantations  for  agricultural  commodities  such  as  palm  oil  and  rubber.  In  fact,  the  dry 
conditions of 2015-2016 have had led to serious water shortages7. 
 
Singapore's current per capita domestic water consumption is 151 litres per day. The target is to lower it 
to 147 litres by 2020 and 140 litres by 2030. By 2060, Singapore aims to be self-reliant with respect to 
water. The government has been expanding the water catchment area but there is a limit — hence the 
emphasis  has  been  on  reusing  water  (NEWater)  and  desalination.  These  unconventional  sources  of 
water are expected to represent 55% and 30% of the supply respectively by 20606. The problem is that 
both processes are extremely energy intensive (therefore sensitive to energy price and emission caps). 
Therefore,  water  demand  management  becomes  an  important  complementary  method  to  the 
development of unconventional water sources in order to achieve not only sustainability but also water 
self-sufficiency.  Given  the  significant  importance  of  domestic  water  consumption,  it  is  clear  that  real 
estate companies have a large role to play in Singapore in relieving water stress and adapting to climate 
change. CDL’s efforts to improve the resource efficiency, including water, of its properties will help to 
reduce the domestic consumption and therefore augment the supply.   
 
Alignment with Green Bond Principles 2016  
Sustainalytics has determined that CDL’s green bond aligns with the four pillars of the ICMA Green Bond 
Principles 2016. Please see Appendix 5 for details. 
 
Climate Bonds Certification 
CDL  has  disclosed  to  Sustainalytics  that  it  will  also  apply  for  a  Climate  Bonds  Certification  for  its 
inaugural green bond. CDL intends to certify its bond against the Climate Bonds Low Carbon Buildings 
standard.   
 
Conclusion 
Overall, CDL’s green bond framework is transparent and provides clarity regarding the outcomes of the 
Green  Bond  investments.  Furthermore,  the  green  bond  framework  is  in  line  with  CDL’s  overall 
environmental  strategy  and  the  climate  change  mitigation  priorities  of  Singapore.  Sustainalytics 
considers CDL’s green bond framework to be robust and credible.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
7 http://www.themalaymailonline.com/print/what-you-think/how-johors-growing-water-woes-could-affect-singapore-jackson-ewing-and-kari  

 
 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

APPENDICES 
 
Appendix 1: Sample Eligible Retrofit Projects Financed through Loan 
 
List of sample eligible retrofit projects for Republic Plaza that will be refinanced through current bond 
issuance. 
 

Year of 

work 

2010 

Description / Main Objectives 

Achieved 

 

Energy/ Water 

Savings 
(Per Year) 

Estimated 
Savings  
(Per Year) 

Capex Amount 

Spent 

Toilet upgrading: raised level of 
comfort and hygiene for tenants, 
and increased water efficiency.  

10,255 mᵌ of 

water 

 
 

Lift interior lights: replacement of 
halogen lights with energy efficient 

$12,000  

$7,198,299  

2010 

lights that emit less heat. User 

27,000 kWh 

$5,400  

$180,000  

comfort raised and energy usage 

reduced. 

 
 

2011 

Toilet lights upgrade: infra-red 

motion sensors installed in toilets. 
Reduced energy usage effectively.  

 
 

2012 

Retrofitting of chiller plants (Phase 

1): significantly raised energy 

efficiency of air conditioning of the 

building.   

 
 

2012 

Lobby lighting at Level 1 & 2 at 

Tower 1: small scaled upgrading but 
some energy savings achieved.     

 
 

2012 

2013 

Common areas lighting upgrading: 
converted lighting to T5 and raised 
energy efficiency substantially.   

 
 

Atrium lighting upgrading: raise 
level of comfort for visitors and 
tenants, and increased energy 

 
 

171,000 kWh 

$34,200  

$150,000  

3,100,000 kWh 

$620,000  

$4,433,100  

10,000 kWh 

$2,000  

$290,000  

289,926 kWh 

$57,985  

$77,655  

25,112 kWh 

$10,924 

$48,955 

10 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

efficiency. 

 

 

2013 

Carpark lighting upgrading: 

adoption of light emitting diode 
(LED) lights with motion sensor 

significantly raised energy 

efficiency.   

 
 

Staircase lighting: motion detector 

installed for all staircases and 

169,585 kWh 

$33,917  

$153,506  

2013 

replacement of T8 lighting to T5.  

172,299 kWh 

$34,460 

$8,855 

Both initiatives contributed to 
tremendous energy savings. 

 
 

Upgrading of lighting to T5 fittings 

for offices.  

 
 

2015 

2015 

Retrofitting of chiller plants (Phase 
2) for air conditioning: further raised 

energy efficiency.   

 
 

Façade crown lighting from neon to 
LED: raised energy efficiency and 
gave a more modern and dynamic 

look to the building.  

 

 

2015 

 

196,923 kWh 

$39,384  

$58,095  

1,800,000 kWh 

$360,000  

$2,972,000  

44,388 kWh 

$8,877  

$725,250  

 

Recurrent 
savings of  
$1,219,147 

per year 

$16,295,715 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

11 

Appendix 2: Description of Potential New Eligible Projects 
 
Description of eligible retrofit projects for Republic Plaza that may be financed through future bond 
proceeds. 
 
Eligibility Criteria 
Energy Efficiency 

Project Name 

 
Modernization of 
Vertical Transportation 

Description 

 
CDL is looking into upgrading Republic Plaza’s lift 
system, which will improve traffic performance, reduce 
waiting time and improve energy efficiency.   
 
 
The effectiveness and feasibility of Low-Emissive 
(Low-E) window glass for solar control in enhancing 
energy efficiency, improving comfort and reducing air-
conditioning costs is currently being researched. 
Based on the product specification, this glass panel 
can be easily installed over the existing windows 
panels. Energy savings of the panels are estimated to 
be 5 - 10% of air-conditioning operating costs. 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

 
Low-E Window Glass 
Panels 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

12 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Appendix 3: Sustainalytics’ ESG Assessment of CDL  
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

13 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Appendix 4: Requirements for BCA Green Mark Platinum Certification 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

14 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

 

 

 
 

 

15 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

22 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics  is  an  independent  ESG  and  corporate  governance  research,  ratings  and  analysis  firm 
supporting  investors  around  the  world  with  the  development  and  implementation  of  responsible 
investment  strategies. With 13 offices  globally, Sustainalytics partners with institutional investors who 
integrate  environmental,  social  and  governance  information  and  assessments  into  their  investment 
processes.  Today,  the  firm  has  more  than  300  staff  members,  including  170  analysts  with  varied 
multidisciplinary  expertise  of  more  than  40  sectors.  Through  the  IRRI  survey,  investors  selected 
Sustainalytics as the best independent responsible investment research firm for three consecutive years, 
2012 through 2014 and in 2015, Sustainalytics was named among the top three firms for both ESG and 
Corporate Governance research. The firm was also named the Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
Global Capital in 2015. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 
Sustainalytics 
info@sustainalytics.com  
www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

23 

