 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 CIUDAD DE MÉXICO  

(CDMX) 

GREEN BOND FRAMEWORK 

 

 

SECOND PARTY OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

November 11th, 2016 

Trisha  Taneja  (Toronto) 
Advisor, Advisory  Services 
trisha.taneja@sustainalytics.com 
(+1)  647 317 3695 

Charlotte Peyraud (New  York)  
Senior Advisor, Institutional Relations 
charlotte.peyraud@sustainalytics.com 
(+1)  646 518 0184 

Ankita Shukla  (Toronto) 
Senior Advisor, Advisory  Services 
ankita.shukla@sustainalytics.com  
(+1)  416 861 0403 

Elisa  Galván-Mondié  (Paris  - Madrid) 
Senior Advisor, Advisory  Services 
elisa.mondie@sustainalytics.com  
(+33)  18 488 6652 I (+34) 91 18 83 762 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 

© Sus tainalytics 2016 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

1. 

INTRODUCTION 

2.  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 

Section 1: Assessment of Mexico City’s Climate Change Strategy 
Section 2: Opinion on the CDMX Green Bond Framework 
Conclusion 

APPENDICES 

Appendix 1: CDMX Bono Verde 2016 – Use of Proceeds 
Appendix 2: Key Strategy and Actions for 2014 – 2020 Under ELAC and PACCM 
Appendix 3: Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

3 

4 
4 
6 
10 

11 
11 
12 
13 

19 

2 

© Sus tainalytics 2016 

1. INTRODUCTION 
 
Gobierno de la Ciudad de Mexico (Mexico City Government) has developed a Green Bond Framework in 
accordance with which it intends to issue green bonds that will fund environmentally beneficial projects 
in  Ciudad de  México (CDMX),  or  Mexico  City. This  Green Bond  Framework has  been published in a 
separate document. The net proceeds of each green bond will be used to refinance or finance, in whole 
or  in  part,  existing  (re-financing)  and future projects that  promote sustainable  development and  the 
transition to a low-carbon, climate-resilient economy. The green bonds will fund projects in eight eligibility 
criteria, as defined in the green bond framework. These eligibility criteria are-  
 

1.  Sustainable Transport 
2.  Sustainable Buildings 
3.  Renewable Energy 
4.  Energy Efficiency 
5.  Water Efficiency and Wastewater Management 
6.  Pollution Prevention and Control 
7.  Conservation and Biodiversity  
8.  Climate Change Adaptation 

 

 A list of eligible projects and projected allocations for the first bond issuance is provided in Appendix 1. 
 
Ciudad de México (CDMX), or Mexico City, has engaged Sustainalytics to provide a second-party opinion 
on  the  CDMX  Green  Bond  Framework.  As  part  of  this  engagement  process,  Sustainalytics  held 
conversations with various teams involved in the development and financing of Mexico City, including The 
city’s Secretary of Financial Planning and Secretary of Environment. These conversations clarified the use 
of  proceeds,  management  of  proceeds  and  reporting  aspects  of  the  Green  Bond  as  well  as  the 
sustainability strategy of Mexico City. Sustainalytics also reviewed relevant public documents and non-
public documents relating to the design, planning, governance and construction of eligible projects under 
the CDMX Green Bond Framework and provided its opinion on the CDMX Green Bond Framework. This 
document contains Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the CDMX Green Bond Framework and should be read in 
conjunction with that framework. 
 

 

 

 
 

3 

© Sus tainalytics 2016 

2. SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
 
Section 1: Assessment of Mexico City’s Climate Change Strategy 
 
Mexico City’s Comprehensive Environmental Commitment:  
Sustainalytics has reviewed Mexico City’s climate change strategy and is of the opinion that the city’s 
government is sustainability-focused and has a robust short- and long-term strategy to mitigate adverse 
environmental impacts. The strength of Mexico City’s climate change strategy derives from: (i) strong 
local climate action plans, (ii) track  record of performance on plans, (iii) participation in international 
forums to report to commitments and actions. Based on the above, Sustainalytics believes that Mexico 
City is well positioned to issue green bonds. 
 
Mexico City has  two local climate change focused commitments. The first is the Climate Action Local 
Strategy  2014-2020  (“ELAC”  in  Spanish), and  the  second  is  the  Climate Action  Program    2014-2020 
(“PACCM” in Spanish)1, which provide a broad strategy to combat climate change as well as corresponding 
action plans.  
 
ELAC outlines a commitment to reduce the emissions of GHGs and to take advantage of the opportunities 
within the  framework of  the  Kyoto  Protocol,  the  Clean  Development Mechanism and  other  global 
instruments under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). In  2006, 
Mexico City drafted and became the first local authority in Mexico to develop such a document. The GHG 
mitigation strategies and actions outlined in ELAC and PACCM are disclosed in Appendix 2.  
 
Mexico City also demonstrates a track record of delivering on its commitments. For the time period of 
2014-2020,  PACCM  is  designed specifically to  be  a  planning  tool  that  integrates, coordinates  and 
promotes actions  to  reduce the  environmental, social and  economic risks  posed by  climate change 
through strategies contained in the ELAC. During the implementation of Mexico City’s first Climate Action 
Program for the 2008-2012  period, 6 million tons of CO2e were mitigated, which represents a decrease 
of 4.5% over the baseline scenario. The current Climate Action Program for the 2014-2020  period seeks 
to strengthen the Federal District Government (GDF) climate policy and build on the achievements of the 
previous program. 
 
Other  examples of Mexico  City’s performance on  its  commitments is  the  city’s  improvement of its  
environmental management efforts since 1992, when the United Nations labeled it as "the most polluted 
city”. In 1990,  the Mexico City Government presented the first ProAire to combat local air pollution as 
well  as  CO2  emissions and  has  since  implemented four  consecutive programmes.  The  ProAire  IV 
programme, launched in 2011  and running until 2020,  contains 89  measures and 116  separate actions 
across eight strategy areas, including energy consumption, greening of the municipal transport fleets, 
education, green areas and reforestation, capacity building and scientific research 2. These efforts have 

 
1 Local Climate Action Strategy Local Climate Action Strategy Mexico City. Accessed on October 17, 2016: 

http://www.cger.nies.go.jp/gcp/pdf/a20060904/t4/sheinbaum.pdf  

2 C40 Cities. Mexico City: ProAire. Accessed on October 26, 2016: http://www.c40.org/profiles/2013-mexicocity  

4 

 
 

© Sus tainalytics 2016 

contributed significantly to reducing air  pollution, and Mexico City is  recognized by the UN  as  having 
shifted its agenda towards environmental sustainability.  
 
Finally, Mexico City   participates in various international forums to  collaborate with other cities with 
respect to climate change adaptation and mitigation, and to report on its commitments. The City became 
a member of the voluntary Global Covenant of Cities on Climate (“The Mexico City Pact”)  in 2010.  The 
Pact is a voluntary initiative of mayors and local authority representatives that aims to advance climate 
actions. As a signatory to the Pact, Mexico City reports on its climate commitments, performance and 
actions to the carbonn® Cities Climate Registry (cCCR). With respect to international commitments around 
mitigation, Mexico City  is  committed to  the  Compact  of  Mayors,  which  pledges to  reduce  its  GHG 
emissions, make existing targets and  plans  public, and  report  on  its  progress annually through CDP. 
Mexico City was fully compliant with the Compact’s four-step process in 20153 and will continue to report 
on its progress through the newly formed Global Covenant of Mayors for Climate and Energy.  
 
Mexico City’s Environmental Targets:  
The  city’s Climate Action  Program  (“PACCM”  in  Spanish) provides a  detailed guidance for  reducing 
emissions by approximately 10 million tons of CO2e by 2020 – which would represent a decrease of almost 
30% of emissions relative to the baseline. The city’s local government operations GHG emissions reduction 
targets for 2020  include a reduction of: 14% in transport, 9% in waste, 5% in facilities and 1% in buildings. 
In terms of adaptation, the Action Program aims to increase the city’s resiliency as well as the population’s 
adaptation capacities, particularly for the 5.6 million people most vulnerable to extreme weather events, 
such as flooding4. In order to support its adaptation strategy initiatives, the city is setting up a Resilience 
Office comprising 3 divisions and a 15-person team with the support of the Rockefeller Foundation’s 100 
Resilient Cities initiative. 
 
Mexico City’s General Program for Development (2013-2018) establishes the city’s public policy priorities, 
including all objectives, goals, and related actions. This Program establishes climate change as a public 
policy priority, and includes the PACCM reduction target of 10 million tons of CO2e by 2020  as a policy 
objective. Mexico City also tracks and reports on these targets through its CDP Survey Responses. The city 
publically reports on its Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, which totaled 6,170,632 metric tonnes CO2e in 2012. 
 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that reporting on targets and performance on Mexico City’s environmental 
strategies is indicative of the priority the city assigns to achieving results. 
 
Mexico City’s targets contribute to Mexico’s national agenda for climate change mitigation. In April 2012, 
Mexico became the first developing country to adopt a General Climate Change Law ( “LGCC” in Spanish), 
which is  Mexico’s main  political tool for  efficiently tackling climate change issue s. The  law is  a  legal 
framework that aims to reduce Mexico’s emissions by 50% from 2000  levels by 2050 and serves as the 
foundation for  the country’s 40-year  National Climate Change Strategy, which was  adopted in  2013. 
Mexico’s Climate Change Strategy as well as the LGCC clearly demonstrates that the country is moving 
forward in the fulfillment of its long-term international pledges. 

 
3 Compact of Mayors. Mexico City. Accessed on October 3, 2016: https://www.compactofmayors.org/cities/mexico-city/  
4 Mexico City’s Climate Action Program: 2014-2020. 

5 

 
 

© Sus tainalytics 2016 

 
Section 2: Opinion on the CDMX Green Bond Framework 
 
Impact from Use of Proceeds 
Proceeds of the bond will be directed towards eight eligibility criteria:  

1.  Sustainable Transport 
2.  Sustainable Buildings 
3.  Renewable Energy 
4.  Energy Efficiency 
5.  Water Efficiency and Wastewater Management 
6.  Pollution Prevention and Control 
7.  Conservation and Biodiversity  
8.  Climate Change Adaptation 

 
Overall, Sustainalytics is  of  the  opinion  that  the  proceeds  from  the  bond  will  have  clear  positive 
environmental impacts and contribute to achieving Mexico City’s environmental targets to reduce GHG 
emissions, increasing the city’s resiliency to climate change, and achieving SDG 11,  Sustainable Cities. 
Below, Sustainalytics has provided an opinion on four of the abovementioned eight criteria- Sustainable 
Buildings, Climate  Change Adaptation, Sustainable Transport, and  Water  Efficiency and  Wastewater 
Management.  
 
Sustainalytics’ Opinion on Sustainable Buildings and Climate Change Adaptation in Mexico City: 
Buildings in Mexico City contribute at least 20%  of GHG  emissions, according to the World Resources 
Institute. Improving energy use in  buildings will help Mexico City hit  its ambitious goal of decreasing 
greenhouse gas emissions by 30% by 20205.  
 
With respect to the sustainable buildings eligibility criterion, Sustainalytics recognizes that (i) LEED Gold 
and Platinum lead to higher energy efficiency gains than LEED Silver, and that (ii) Climate Bonds Initiative 
sets  the  target  for  a  reduction in  energy  consumption at  30%.    However, given the  low degree of 
penetration of sustainable buildings in Mexico City, Sustainalytics views LEED Silver and a  reduction in 
energy consumption of at least 15% as an achievable target. For example, in 2014, Mexico City had 37 
LEED-certified projects and 148  LEED-registered projects6. Of the certified projects, 29 out of 37  were 
certified as  LEED  Silver or  higher. Given  this  context, and  the  number  of  buildings in  Mexico  City, 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that setting targets that are realizable for as many buildings as possible will 
result in significant overall impact. Wherever feasible, Sustainalytics encourages Mexico City to make best 
efforts to achieve LEED Gold or Platinum certification. 
 
With  respect  to  climate  change  adaptation,  Sustainalytics  has  reviewed  Mexico  City  government 
documents which confirm that the city has identified, and seeks to address, risks posed by climate change 
through the city’s Resilience Strategy. The Mexico City Climate Action Program (PACCM) 2014-2020 states 
 
5 World Resources Institute. Building a More Competitive Mexico City Through Energy Efficiency. April 1, 2015. Accessed on October 17, 2016: 

http://www.wri.org/blog/2015/04/building-more-competitive-mexico-city-through-energy-efficiency  

6 World Green Building Council. Green Building City Market Brief: Mexico City. August 2014. Accessed on October 17, 2016: 

http://www.worldgbc.org/files/1414/0982/5897/Mexico_City_-_City_Market_Brief_Final.pdf  

6 

 
 

© Sus tainalytics 2016 

that about 5.6 million people in the city are vulnerable to climate change and describes their geographic 
location to threats such as heat waves, floods, and landslides based on predictions from the Mexico City 
Virtual Center for Climate Change. In Sustainalytics’ opinion, Mexico City could strengthen its framework 
by conducting climate change risk studies for proposed projects under the  adaptation eligibility criterion. 
Such project-specific studies strengthen the impact of the use of proceeds, as they establish a clear case 
that adaptation infrastructure is being funded as a direct response to climate change risks.  
 
Importance of Sustainable Transport in Mexico City: 
Mexico City already boasts an  effective sustainable transport system. The city has  made considerable 
strides in improving sustainable mobility options in the last decade by restricting the use of private cars 
and by developing its public transport system. 77.9%  of all trips on a  typical workday occur  on public 
transport in Mexico City7. The City’s Bus Rapid Transportation (“BRT”) system, Metrobus, commenced in 
2005  and has 1.1 million daily passengers. Metrobus has increased access to basic public services while 
contributing to climate change mitigation and has received recognition through the Sustainable Transport 
Award in 20138.  
 
While noteworthy achievements have been made in Mexico City, there continues to be strong demand 
for continued development of sustainable transport infrastructure, as indicated by Greater Mexico City’s 
projected population growth. The population of Greater Mexico City increased at a rate of 0.8% per year 
from 2010  to 2015,  and it is expected to increase to approximately 23.9 million in 2030 from 20.8 million 
in 20149. Improvements and expansions to the subway and BRT system will help to meet the city’s growing 
transportation needs in a sustainable manner. 
 
Importance of Water Efficiency and Wastewater Management in Mexico City: 
Water  infrastructure in Mexico City  consists of  water supply and  distribution, wastewater collection, 
storm water collection and wastewater treatment. Water management has become a high priority for 
Mexico City and is included in the Mexico City’s Climate Action Program (PACCM) as well as the city’s 
Resilience Strategy, which was formalized in September 2016. 
 
Mexico City loses 41.4% of its water due to an outdated, run-down water system which is plagued by 
thousands of small leaks over miles of underground piping10. The water distribution system is formed by 
12,000  km of pipeline network, built 30 years ago, which contains many pipes that are now rusty and 
broken due to earthquakes and usage 11. Furthermore, every year, the city extracts 1.3 billion cubic meters 
of  water  while rainfall, and  some  injection, recharges  it  by  only  700  million cubic  meters12. Thus, 

 
7 Global BRT Data. Mexico City. Accessed on October 4, 2016: http://brtdata.org/location/latin_america/mexico/mexico_city  
8 Sustainable Transport Award Committee. Mexico City. Accessed on October 4, 2016: http://staward.org/winners/2013-mexico-city-mexico/  
9 United Nations. 2014. World Urbanization Prospects. Accessed on October 4, 2016, p. 26: 

https://esa.un.org/unpd/wup/Publications/Files/WUP2014-Highlights.pdf  

10 Ciudad de México. CDMX Resilience Strategy. 2016. Accessed on October 7, 2016: http://www.100resilientcities.org/page/-

/100rc/pdfs/CDMX%20Resilience%20Strategy%20-%20English.pdf  

11 Platunum. 2015. Water in Mexico City. Accessed on October 6, 2016: http://www.plantum.mx/single-post/2015/12/01/Water-in-Mexico-

City-Artificial-Scarcity  

12 https://news.vice.com/article/millions-of-taps-run-dry-as-mexico-city-fixes-some-decrepit-water-pipes  

 
 

7 

© Sus tainalytics 2016 

underground aquifers, which provides around 70%  of the city’s water, are  drying at  an alarming rate. 
These challenges results in 70% of the city having fewer than 12 hours of running water per day 13. 
 
The Climate Action Local Strategy (ELAC) and Resilience Strategy identifies extreme rainfall, which may 
result in an increased number of floods, as one of the expected shocks associated with climate change. 
Shocks to sewage systems are projected during intense rainfall seasons, and the frequency and extent of 
such shocks may increase significantly due to lack of infrastructure maintenance or as a result of future 
earthquakes, which may result in damaged infrastructure in the city. There is an immediate need for the 
city to update its water infrastructure in order to address risks related to water distribution as well as 
stormwater collection. 
 
In addition to water management, water treatment and sanitation are also important issues for the city. 
The use of large volumes of water, and the inability to recycle and reuse that water, generates a large 
volume of wastewater, most of which does not receive adequate treatment. Consequently, wastewater 
strongly affects environmental quality within discharge zones. Today, the city’s wastewater is primary 
diverted to the Mezquital watershed in the north for irrigation purposes. While wastewater has been used 
for irrigation in the area for nearly a century, the untreated water has led to sanitary and environmental 
problems. An additional benefit to increasing the city’s capacity to treat wastewater is that Mexico City 
may be able to alleviate much of the demand for freshwater, particularly in the industrial and agricultural 
industry. 
 
Mexico  City’s  Climate  Action  Program  (PACCM),  as  well  as  its  new  Resilience  Strategy, prioritizes 
improvements to water infrastructure in the City and outlines specific targets to address the concerns 
related to  water  and  wastewater management. Mexico  City  has  layed  down  a  foundation to  plan 
integrated solutions that meet the challenges posed by urbanization and climate change , specifically as 
they relate to water management. 
 

 

 
13 Panoramas: Center for Latin American Studies at the University of Pittsburgh. 2015. Watering the Classes: Mexico City's Water Shortage. 

Accessed on October 6, 2016: http://www.panoramas.pitt.edu/technology/watering-classes-mexico-citys-water-shortage 

8 

 
 

© Sus tainalytics 2016 

Well positioned to address common challenges associated with infrastructure projects in emerging 
markets: 
Sustainalytics recognizes that infrastructure development projects generally create environmental and 
social risks in addition to benefits. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Mexico City is well positioned to 
manage and address such risks. 
 
Environmental risks include loss of biodiversity during construction, pollution from construction and 
construction materials, and loss of  land usable for  reforestation. Mexico City conducts Environmental 
Impact  Assessments  (EIA)  in  order  to  assess  and  manage  environmental  impacts  resulting  from 
infrastructure projects. The works and activities subject to EIAs are defined under an article within the 
Environmental Protection law, which includes activities that can cause grave and irreparable ecological 
imbalance, and  have  a  harmful  effect on  public  health or  the  ecosystem. Such  projects  require an 
assessment in  the  form  of  an  EIA,  a  risks  study  or  a  strategic  environmental  assessment  before 
construction can begin. In cases where a comprehensive study is not required, an administrative filing is 
needed to initiate the project. Mexico City further requires a continuous assessments of environmental 
damages as well as an annual update on environmental licences, which covers several autorizations and 
permits in one single filing. 
 
Social risks include negative impacts on populations. Mexico City has confirmed to Sustainalytics that no 
slum populations exist in or near the geographic areas of the eligible projects and thus no populations 
are expected to be displaced. With respect to labor conditions for eligible projects, Article 123 of the 
Constitution of Mexico requires adherence to standards and principles in the workplace, including 
duties of the employer in the field of occupational safety and health. The Federal Regulation on 
Occupational Safety and Hygiene (OSH) and the Working Environment aims to set up the necessary 
measures to prevent accidents and diseases in addition to ensuring safe and healthy working conditions 
for workers. Mexico City reports having a stringent enforcement system to ensure compliance to all 
applicable labour laws, regulations and standards and ensure that Mexico City’s employees and all 
stakeholders affected by proposed projects are protected as comprehensively as possible. 
 
Alignment with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): 
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were set in September 2015 and form an agenda for achieving 
sustainable development by the year 2030.  These goals are widely considered to be the next step to the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDG), which were time-bound to 2015.  Of particular importance for 
Mexico City under the Green Bond Principles (GBP) is SDG 11 Sustainable Cities, which includes a target 
to (i) reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by paying special attention 
to air quality and municipal and other waste management, and (ii) providing access to safe, affordable, 
accessible and sustainable transport systems for all, notably by expanding public transport. The SDGs 
recognize the fundamental role of cities in fighting climate change and achieving a sustainable future. 
 
Under the CDMX Green Bond Framework, eligible green projects contribute towards the promotion of 
sustainable city infrastructure and  are  aligned with SDG  11  Sustainable Cities including:  sustainable 
transport (11.2), sustainable buildings (11.c), pollution prevention and control in order to improve air 
quality (11.6),  and climate change adaptation (11.5). 
 

 
 

9 

© Sus tainalytics 2016 

Alignment with Green Bond Principles 2016:   
Sustainalytics has determined that the Ciudad De Mexico (CDMX) Green Bond Framework aligns to the 
four pillars of the Green Bond Principles 2016. For detailed information please refer to Appendix 3: 
Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form. 
 
Conclusion 
Mexico  City  has  strong  commitments to  manage  and  mitigate the  impacts  of  climate  change,  as 
demonstrated by its policies, targets and international action. The CDMX Green Bond Framework and the 
city’s  green  bond  issuances  may  also  set  a  positive  precedent  for  the  promotion  of  sustainable 
infrastructure investment by public sector and state-owned enterprises in Mexico. 
 
The CDMX Green Bond Framework is in alignment with the four pillars of Green Bond Principles 2016. The 
Framework  defines a  strong  eligibility criteria,  demonstrates a  structured  and  transparent  project 
selection process that  is  supported by  the Mexico City  Finance Ministry and  Mexico City Ministry of 
Environment, and  outlines  clear  and  transparent  processes  for  the  management  of  proceeds  and 
reporting with KPIs that capture energy and water reduction. 
 
Based on the above considerations, Sustainalytics is of the view that Mexico City’s Green Bond is robust, 
credible and transparent. 

 

 

 
 

10 

© Sus tainalytics 2016 

APPENDICES 
 
Appendix 1: CDMX Bono Verde 2016 – Use of Proceeds 
CDMX has identified projects (new and existing) amounting to approximately MXN1350 million that 
could potentially receive allocations from its 2016 green bond issuance. All are public works projects 
located in Mexico City. 

 

 
 
 

 
 

11 

© Sus tainalytics 2016 

Appendix 2: Key Strategy and Actions for 2014 – 2020 Under ELAC and PACCM 
 
Strategic Priorities of the Climate Action Local Strategy (ELAC) and the corresponding Key Actions set by 
the Climate Action Program (PACCM). 
  

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

12 

© Sus tainalytics 2016 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics is the largest independent provider of sustainability 
research, analysis, and services to investors. We serve over 250 
institutional investors which include some of the world's largest asset 
owners and asset managers. Through over 20 years of experience 
serving the responsible investment (RI) market, we have gained a 
reputation for providing high-quality ESG research solutions and 
excellent client service. 

Sustainalytics is headed by seasoned professionals in the field of 
business, finance, and sustainability, with a wealth of experience in the 
Responsible Investment area. After more than 20 years of local 
experience and expertise in the Responsible Investment (RI) market 
Sustainalytics has developed a comprehensive understanding of trends 
and best practices and a solid process to assist organisations in 
integrating ESG considerations into their policies and strategies. We 
have worked with some of the world’s financial institutions including 
pension plans, investment managers and banks providing customised 
support to help them achieve their RI objectives. Clients include ABN 
AMRO, APG, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank, ING Bank, Lombard 
Odier, Lloyds Bank, Triodos Bank, UBS and over 250 other financial 
institutions and organisations. 

Sustainalytics now has a staff of 250 employees globally, including over 
120  analysts, with operations in Amsterdam, Boston, Bucharest, 
Frankfurt, New York, Paris, London, Singapore, Sydney, Timisoara, and 
Toronto, and representation in Brussels and Washington DC. 

In 2015, Sustainalytics was named the Best 
SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
GlobalCapital. In December 2014, for the 
third year in a row, Sustainalytics was 
named best sustainable and responsible 
investment research firm in the 
Independent Research in Responsible 
Investment (IRRI) Survey, conducted by 
Thomson Reuters and SRI-CONNECT.  

 
 

19 

