 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 COMUNIDAD DE MADRID 

SUSTAINABILITY BOND 

 

FRAMEWORK 

SECOND OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

 

March 28th, 2017 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 

 

Catarina da Silva (Amsterdam) 

Floriana Cau (Paris) 

Senior Advisor, Advisory Services 
catarina.dasilva@sustainalytics.com 
(+31) 20 205 0045 
 
 
 
 

Advisor, Institutional Relations 
floriana.cau@sustainalytics.com 
(+33) 18 488 0644 
 
 
 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

1. 

Introduction 

2.  Sustainalytics’ opinion 

Section 1: Assessment of Comunidad de Madrid’s mandate 
Section 2: Opinion on Comunidad de Madrid’ Sustainability Bond Framework 
Conclusion 

APPENDIX I:  DOCUMENTS REVIEWED 

APPENDIX II: ICMA’S EXTERNAL REVIEW FORM 

APPENDIX III: SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

2 

3 
3 
3 
11 

12 

14 

21 

1 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

1. INTRODUCTION 

 
The Autonomous Community of Madrid (Comunidad de Madrid) is a densely-populated region, with more 
than 6 million inhabitants who live mainly in urban areas. Comunidad Madrid is strongly committed to 
respond  to  the  needs  of  its  citizens,  and  devotes  a  substantial  part  of  its  budget  to  social  and 
environmental spending targeted at improving their quality of life.  
 
In line with its mandate, Comunidad de Madrid has developed a Sustainability Bond Framework1 which it 
intends to use for the purpose of issuing Sustainability Bonds. The proceeds of the Sustainability Bonds 
will be allocated to a mix of environmental and social projects, in alignment with Comunidad de Madrid’s 
General Budget for a specific fiscal year. To be eligible for the Sustainability Bonds proceeds, the activities 
funded must meet eligibility criteria in one or more of the following areas: 

  Affordable housing 
  Education 
  Healthcare  
  Social inclusion 
  Economic inclusion and SME financing 
  Climate change and environmental management 

 
Although many of the eligible activities benefit Comunidad de Madrid’s population in general, vulnerable 
populations receive most support in terms of social expenditures, benefiting from several programmes 
specifically developed to support their social integration and improving their living conditions. 
 
Comunidad de Madrid has engaged Sustainalytics to provide a second opinion on its Sustainability Bond 
Framework.  As  part  of  this  engagement  process,  Sustainalytics  held  conversations  with  regional 
authorities  to  understand  the  scope  of  eligible  activities  and  the  social  and  environmental  impacts 
associated with the proposed projects. Following an initial engagement, Comunidad de Madrid made an 
effort to provide more granular information regarding the budget programmes and activities that may be 
financed  with  proceeds  of  a  Sustainability  Bond.  This  engagement  has  resulted  in  a more  transparent 
Sustainability Bond Framework. In addition, further discussions were held regarding the selection process, 
management  of  proceeds  and  reporting  aspects  of  Comunidad  de  Madrid’s  Sustainability  Bonds. 
Sustainalytics  has  also  assisted  Comunidad  de  Madrid  in  defining  potential  impact  indicators  for  a 
meaningful impact reporting.  
Furthermore,  Sustainalytics  reviewed  relevant  public  documents2  to  understand  the  social  and 
environmental  context  of  Comunidad  de  Madrid,  and  the  impact  of  its  activities  on  vulnerable 
populations.   
This document contains Sustainalytics’ opinion on Comunidad de Madrid’s Sustainability Bond Framework 
and should be read in conjunction with that framework. 
 

 
1 The Comunidad de Madrid Sustainability Bond Framework will be available for download at: 
http://www.madrid.org/cs/Satellite?c=Page&cid=1354342235966&language=es&pageid=1158834935224&pagename=Inversor
%2FPage%2FINVE_contenidoFinal 
2 A list of these documents is provided in Appendix I. 

2 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

 

2. SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION  

 
Section 1: Assessment of Comunidad de Madrid’s mandate 
 
A clear social and environmental mandate serving the needs of its citizens 
An  important  part  of  Comunidad  de  Madrid’s  budget  is  devoted  to  social  spending.  In  2017,  social 
expenditures account for 87% of the yearly budget. Social spending includes several programmes such as 
the  funding  of  public  policies  related  to  public  health,  education,  social  services,  promotion  of 
employment, public transport, and social housing. The first three areas alone accounted for 74% of the 
expenditures  in  2017.  Comunidad  de  Madrid’s  spending  on  social  programmes  aims  to  strengthen 
Madrid’s  socio-economic  recovery  and  improve  social  cohesion,  thanks  to  the  development  of  public 
services benefiting all its citizens and implementation of programmes to promote employment through 
the investment in small enterprises.  
 
In addition, Comunidad de Madrid has an important environmental mandate. Almost 50% of the region’s 
surface is protected due to its environmental protection and conservation value. Madrid’s geo-economic 
situation  creates  the  necessity  to  implement  policies  to  manage  pollution  and  waste  management  in 
dense urban areas, and simultaneously address the need to protect and preserve the rich ecosystems of 
the region. 
 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that by financing key public services related to health, education, social 
services,  promotion  of  employment  and  social  housing,  Comunidad  de  Madrid  is  providing  essential 
support to the welfare of Madrid’s citizens, and specifically, to the most vulnerable populations3. Overall, 
Sustainalytics considers that there is a clear social and environmental mandate and that Comunidad de 
Madrid is well positioned to issue Sustainability Bonds.    
 
 
Section 2: Opinion on Comunidad de Madrid’ Sustainability Bond Framework 
 
Use of Proceeds providing positive and tangible social and environmental benefits  
The  proceeds  of  the  Sustainability  Bonds  may  be  directed  towards  investments  in  the  following 
programmes of Comunidad de Madrid: (i) Affordable housing, (ii) Education, (iii) Healthcare, (iv) Social 
inclusion,  (v)  Economic  inclusion  and  SME  financing,  and  (vi)  Climate  change  and  environmental 
management. 
 
Overall, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the proceeds of the Sustainability Bonds will be allocated to 
projects that have clear social and environmental benefits, contributing, for example, to: 

- 

the social inclusion of vulnerable populations in the region of Madrid,  

 
3 Examples of vulnerable populations include, but are not limited to, persons living below the poverty threshold, persons in 
vulnerable household situations, persons with disabilities, migrants, homeless people, and the elderly. 
 

3 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

- 

- 

achieving  the  European  Commission’s  Europe  2020  Plan  for  “smart,  sustainable,  inclusive 
growth”4, and  
advancing the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).  

 
Below,  Sustainalytics  provides  an  opinion  on  the  social  and  environmental  impacts  of  the  eligible 
programmes for the use of proceeds of Comunidad de Madrid’s Sustainability Bonds. 
 
Affordable housing  
Comunidad de Madrid finances projects for the development and provision of social housing and shelter 
to  disadvantaged  populations.  Sustainalytics  considers  this  is  an  impactful  use  of  proceeds,  especially 
considering the due diligence processes Comunidad de Madrid has in place, and the definition of clear 
eligibility criteria for beneficiaries to ensure affordable housing is provided to those in need. Examples of 
eligibility criteria include, for instance, the income level of the beneficiaries, number of family members, 
and  relevant  immigrant  background  of  the  family.  Additionally,  social  housing  efforts  align  well  with 
European priorities, such as the Europe 2020 Plan. Housing is steadily becoming a major expenditure for 
European  households,  driven  by  ongoing  economic  distresses  across  the  continent.  Comunidad  de 
Madrid’s use of proceeds will contribute positively to addressing this challenge. 
 
Education 
Education is a fundamental social right, bringing significant benefits to society. An educated and skilled 
workforce  is  essential  for  a  region’s  competitiveness,  particularly  in  today’s  knowledge  economy.  
Comunidad de Madrid offers a wide network of public schools. In 2016, the region offered 452 nursery 
schools (0-3 years), 319 schools for young children and 133 children's daycare centers. In addition, there 
is an important  network of public  primary  and secondary  education schools (796 in 2016) and special 
education  schools  (24  in  2016).  Furthermore,  Comunidad  de  Madrid  allocates  specific  resources  to 
guarantee  access  to  education  for  students  in  disadvantaged  situations  (social  and/or  cultural 
disadvantage or minorities). 
 
Comunidad de Madrid’s Education Programmes also support public universities and university students. 
Despite  the  fact  that  Sustainalytics  considers  this  type  of  financing  to  be  less  impactful  than  the  one 
directed  at  youth  and  mandatory  levels  of  education,  following  communication  with  the  issuer, 
Sustainalytics agrees that  not  providing such  support  would have  undesirable negative  social  impacts. 
Furthermore,  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  support  being  provided  to  disadvantaged  students 
promotes  the  principle of equality and has a  social benefit. Specifically, activities  financed include the 
support  and  training  of  students  with  disabilities  and  the  granting  of  scholarships  according  to  socio-
economic criteria (for students with limited economic resources). 
 
Healthcare  
Comunidad de Madrid offers universal healthcare coverage to all of its citizens. Healthcare represented 
41.2% of Madrid’s budget in 2017. The overall objective of the healthcare programme is the maintenance 

 
4 The “Europe 2020 Strategy” designed as the successor to the Lisbon strategy, adopted by the European Council on 17 June 
2010 is the EU's common agenda for the next decade. It puts emphasis on smart, sustainable and inclusive growth that can 
overcome the structural weaknesses in Europe's economy, improve its competitiveness and productivity and underpin a 
sustainable social market economy. http://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/web/europe-2020-indicators/europe-2020-strategy/context  

4 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

of  a  quality  healthcare  service  and  an  efficient  use  of  resources.  Madrid’s  public  healthcare  service 
includes plans such as the ‘Plan to improve healthcare services for people with rare diseases’, the ‘Alert, 
control and follow-up plan for cancer diseases’, and the ‘Training for healthcare personnel’. 
 
A part of Comunidad de Madrid’s healthcare spending is devoted to the modernization of information 
systems,  the  improvement  of  the  quality  of  the  medical  services  and  level  of  satisfaction  of  its 
beneficiaries,  and  the  maintenance  and  renovation  of  the  infrastructures  of  the  main  hospitals, 
contributing to energy saving policies.  
 
Sustainalytics considers that ensuring healthy lives and promoting the well-being at all ages is essential to 
sustainable development. Significant strides have been made in increasing life expectancy and quality of 
life.  However,  more  efforts  and  quality  healthcare  systems  are  needed  to  eradicate  a  wide  range  of 
diseases  and  address  many  different  persistent  and  emerging  health  issues5.  Overall,  Sustainalytics 
considers that the financing of healthcare related services and infrastructure is a strong and impactful use 
of proceeds. 
 
Social inclusion  
Comunidad  de  Madrid's  strategy  for  social  inclusion  aims  to  achieve  the  full  integration  in  society  of 
people  who  are  in  a  situation  (or  at  risk)  of  poverty  and  social  exclusion.  In  practice,  this  support  is 
provided by financing for instance: 

- 

- 

- 

Expenditures related to the provision of goods and services to support victims of gender violence, 
the mentally and/or physically disabled, and the elderly;  
Expenditures  related  to  programmes  that  promote  integration,  education and employment of 
groups at risk of social exclusion; 
Financial assistance6 (minimum income) ensuring that people at risk of social exclusion have their 
basic needs covered; 

 
Sustainalytics considers that  these expenditures provide  a tangible positive  contribution  to vulnerable 
populations of Comunidad de Madrid, but also to achieve Europe’s 2020 target addressing the “risk of 
poverty and social exclusion”. As part of this Strategy, the EU launched a specific indicator that measures 
the number of people affected by at  least one of three forms of poverty: monetary  poverty, material 
deprivation and low work intensity7. In 2015, the risk of poverty and social exclusion of Comunidad de 
Madrid affected 10.5% of its population8. The target groups of Comunidad de Madrid’s social spending 
overlap those groups identified as being at risk by the EU Strategy, showing the adequate focus and social 
relevance of Comunidad de Madrid’s Sustainability Bonds use of proceeds. 
 

 
5 UN SDG 3, accessed on March 13, 2017 from http://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/health/ 
6 Comunidad de Madrid will ensure that in case there are other funding sources only the part financed by Comunidad de 
Madrid is eligible. 
7 http://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/statistics-explained/index.php/Europe_2020_indicators_-_poverty_and_social_exclusion 
8 https://intereconomia.com/economia/macroeconomia/pobreza-radiografia-espana-20161122-1354/ 
 

5 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

It is worth highlighting the implementation of several activities supporting social cohesion and inclusion, 
protection  of  children  and  women,  and  care  for  the  elderly  and  incapacitated9  people.  Important 
programmes  that  provide  the  foundation  and  guidance  for  Madrid’s  social  interventions  are:  the 
‘Comunidad  de  Madrid’s  Social  Inclusion  Strategy  (2016-2021)’,  the  ‘Comunidad  de  Madrid’s  Plan  for 
Inclusion  of  Homeless  People  (2016-2021)’  and  the  ‘Comunidad  de  Madrid’s  Strategy  against  gender 
violence (2016-2021)’. In 2016, Comunidad de Madrid offered support in 87 social services centres and 
nine  centres specialized  in  supporting  incapacitated  people,  and  its  financial assistance  reached more 
than 30,000 families.  
 
Additionally, speaking to the impact of Comunidad de Madrid’s social inclusion policies, according to a 
survey10 shared with Sustainalytics, over 90% of the immigrants in this region feel well integrated in their 
working environment and local communities.  
 
Economic inclusion and SME financing 
In 2016, Comunidad de Madrid’s economy grew by 3.4%, which translated a reduction of unemployment 
of almost 47,000 people. Supported by an improvement of Europe’s economic context, Comunidad de 
Madrid’s  employment  programmes  also  provide  an  important  contribution  to  the  reduction  of  the 
unemployment rate, which was 14.6% by the end of 2016 (four points below the national rate). Madrid’s 
‘Strategy  for  Employment’,  aims  to  improve  the  employability  of  workers  and  encourage  stable  jobs, 
particularly for people with a distance to the job market. In 2017, employment will remain a priority for 
Comunidad de Madrid (registering a 10% budget increase). 
 
Limited  access  to  funds  constitutes  a  challenge  to  further  development  of  small  and  medium-sized 
enterprises (SMEs), which are of key importance to ensuring economic growth, innovation, job creation, 
and  social  integration.  Access  to  finance  and  technological  modernization  are  critical  issues  for  the 
development of SMEs. SMEs are a very important part of the economy, as they represent around 99 % of 
all enterprises and employ over 70% of the workforce in Spain11. Sustainalytics considers that the support 
provided to Madrid’s SMEs, including start-ups and those exercising craftsmanship/artisan activities, will 
have  two  types  of  positive  social  impact:  strengthening  the  competitiveness  of  SMEs  leading  to  the 
creation and preservation of jobs, and the promotion of the integration of vulnerable people.  
Despite the fact that Comunidad de Madrid does not have exclusionary criteria in place regarding the type 
of sectors that would be eligible for financing, Comunidad de Madrid assured Sustainalytics that financing 
to  SMEs  potentially  involved  in  controversial  activities  will  be  excluded  from  the  use  of  proceeds12. 
Sustainalytics recommends that Comunidad de Madrid formalizes this process and defines exclusionary 
criteria  to  be  applied  when  selecting  SMEs  that  are  eligible  to  be  financed  with  proceeds  of  the 
Sustainability Bond. 
 

 
9 Incapacitated people represent 4% of the population of Comunidad de Madrid (270.000 people). More than 70% of those 
cases represent physical disabilities.  
10 Barometro de Inmigracion 2016, Comunidad de Madrid 
11 Annual Report on European SMEs 2014/2015, European Commission, November 2015 
12 Examples of such activities include for example: distilling, rectifying and blending of spirits; manufacture of tobacco products, 
gambling and betting activities, etc. 

6 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Sustainalytics recognizes that for impact indicators related to this category (e.g. number of jobs created), 
a  direct  impact  stemming  from  the  investment  is  difficult  to  assess,  given  that  other  socio-economic 
factors will also influence these metrics. 
 
Climate change and environmental management 
Madrid’s region has more than 6 million inhabitants who live mainly in urban areas. Still, almost 50% of 
the region surface  is protected due  to is environmental value. Comunidad de Madrid’s  Environmental 
Department13 is responsible for the implementation of relevant environmental policies.  
Comunidad de Madrid has currently two main environmental strategies in place: (i) “Plan Azul+ (2013-
2020)”, addressing air pollution and climate change; and (ii) “Plan Regional de Residuos Urbanos (2006-
2016)”,  addressing  waste  management.  In  addition,  Comunidad  de  Madrid  has  plans  to  control  and 
protect its natural areas through the ‘Forestry Plan’ and the ‘Identification of Special Conservation Areas’ 
(i.e. those that are richer in terms of biodiversity and that need special conservation measures). 
 
Madrid’s “Plan Azul+ (2013-2020)” strives to achieve a sustainable development of the region of Madrid, 
promoting economic development while reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Comunidad de Madrid has 
two targets to reduce its carbon footprint by 2020: 

 

 

Reduction of CO2 emissions in the transport sector by 15%, and 15% reduction in the real estate 
sector, compared to 2005; 
Reduction of global CO2 emissions by 10% compared to 2005. 

To  achieve  this,  Madrid’s  Plan  Azul+  includes  58  policy  measures  with  a  special  focus  on  low-carbon 
transportation. This is the main pollution source in the region (accounting for 53% of total CO2 emissions). 
 
Given the urban context of Comunidad de Madrid, financing low carbon transportation is considered an 
impactful use of proceeds as it will support Comunidad de Madrid to achieve its greenhouse gas emissions 
reduction target and reduce the use of fossil fuels. Comunidad de Madrid has assured Sustainalytics that 
no proceeds from its Sustainability Bonds will be directed towards transportation activities that consume 
fossil  fuels  such  as  natural  gas  (these  expenditures  will  be  excluded  by  lowering  the  eligible  budget 
percentage from the corresponding eligible programme).  
 
With regard to Comunidad de Madrid’s waste management plan, this is currently being updated (2017-
2024 Plan). This programme aims to achieve European, national and regional commitments related to 
waste management. Targets have been set for different purposes:  

- 
- 

Prevention: trying to decrease the volume of waste generated, 
Increasing  recycling  and  waste  treatment  rates:  once  the  waste  is  generated,  the  target  is  to 
recycle  or  treat  it  to  minimize  the  ecological  impact.  As  part  of  this  plan,  there  are  specific 
measures  in  place  to managing  certain  types  of waste  such  as:  urban  waste,  industrial  waste, 
electronic waste, construction waste, etc.  

 
Mobilizing  resources  towards  a  circular  economy  has  been  signalled  as  an  important  priority  by  the 
European Union, and the use of proceeds of Comunidad de Madrid’ Sustainability Bond will provide a 

 
13 “Consejeria de Medio Ambiente, Administración Local y Ordenación del Territorio”, and specifically the “Dirección General de 
Medio Ambiente”  

7 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

contribution  to  this  goal.  Sustainalytics  recognizes  that  recycling  activities  contribute  to  a  circular 
economy, and it has obvious positive impacts. However, there are also some limitations to this approach. 
For instance, the recycling process is fairly water and energy intensive (generating emissions). Such factors 
should be taken into consideration and adequately mitigated, as they limit the environmental benefits 
from the Sustainability Bond’s proceeds.   
 
 
Contribution of Comunidad de Madrid’s Sustainability Bond to advancing the Sustainable Development 
Goals 
The  use  of  proceeds  of  Comunidad  de  Madrid’s  Sustainability  Bond  align  well  the  UN  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs).  In  Sustainalytics’  view,  the  various  eligible  activities  directly  contribute  to 
advancing several of the seventeen SDGs. From all the SDG’s, Sustainalytics would highlight the following:  
 
SDG 1: End poverty in all its forms everywhere 
SDG 1 includes targets to reduce the percentage of the population living in poverty, and refers to the need 
to implement social protection systems and measures for all, achieving a substantial coverage of the poor 
and the vulnerable. Sustainalytics considers that Comunidad de Madrid’s activities related to “Affordable 
housing” and “Social inclusion” specifically advance the targets of this SDG.  
 
SDG 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages 
SDG  3  strives  to  achieving  universal  health  coverage,  including  access  to  quality  essential  healthcare 
services  and  access  to  safe,  effective,  quality  and  affordable  essential  medicines  and  vaccines  for  all. 
Sustainalytics  considers  that  Comunidad  de  Madrid’s  activities  related  to  “Healthcare”  specifically 
advance the targets of this SDG. 
 
SDG 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all 
SDG 4 aims for (i) equal access to affordable and quality education, including university; (ii) substantially 
increase  the  number  of  youth  and  adults  who  have  relevant  skills  for  employment,  decent  jobs  and 
entrepreneurship; and (iii) building and upgrading education facilities that are child, disability and gender 
sensitive and provide safe, non-violent, inclusive and effective learning environments for all. Sustainalytics 
considers  that  Comunidad  de  Madrid’s  activities  related  to  “Education”  and  “Economic  inclusion” 
specifically advance the targets of this SDG. 
 
SDG 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls 
In particular, SDG 5 strives to eliminating all forms of violence against all women and girls, and recognizing 
the  importance  of  equality.  Sustainalytics  considers  that  Comunidad  de  Madrid’s  activities  related  to 
“Fighting against gender violence and promotion of equal opportunities” specifically advance the targets 
of this SDG. 
  
SDG 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment 
and decent work for all 
SDG 8 strives to supporting productive activities, decent job creation, entrepreneurship and innovation, 
and encourage the formalization and growth of SMEs, including through access to financial services. 

 
 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Sustainalytics considers that Comunidad de Madrid’s activities related to “Economic inclusion and SME 
financing” specifically advance the targets of this SDG. 
 
SDG 11: Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable 
SDG 11 strives to ensuring access to adequate, safe and affordable housing and basic services to all. SDG 
11 also aims to provide access to sustainable transport systems to all, with special attention to the needs 
of  those  in  vulnerable  situations  such  as  children,  persons  with  disabilities  and  older  persons. 
Sustainalytics considers that Comunidad de Madrid’s activities related to “Affordable housing” and “Social 
inclusion” specifically advance the targets of this SDG. 
 
SDG 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts 
SDG  13  includes  a  target  that  specifies  integrating  climate  change  measures  into  national  policies, 
strategies,  and  planning.  Sustainalytics  considers  that  Comunidad  de  Madrid’s  activities  related  to 
“Climate change and environmental management” specifically advance the targets of this SDG. 
 
 
Alignment with the Green Bond Principles and the Social Bond Guidance 
Sustainalytics has determined that Comunidad de Madrid’s Sustainability Bond aligns with the four pillars 
of ICMA’s Green Bond Principles and Social Bond Guidance, 2016. An analysis of the alignment of these 
four pillars is available below and in Appendix II: Green Bond Programme External Review Form. 
 

Use of 
proceeds 

Proceeds  of  the  Sustainability  Bonds  will  be  directed  towards  investments  in  the 
following eligible areas: (i) Affordable housing; (ii) Education; (iii) Healthcare; (iv) Social 
inclusion;  (v)  Economic  inclusion  and  SME  financing;  (vi)  Climate  change  and 
environmental management. 
 
Overall, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the proceeds from Comunidad de Madrid 
Sustainability Bonds will have clear social and environmental benefits, contributing to 
the social inclusion of vulnerable populations in the region of Madrid, achieving UN 
Sustainable  Development  Goals,  and  advancing  the  European  Commission’s  Europe 
2020  Plan  for  “smart,  sustainable,  inclusive  growth”.  However,  Sustainalytics 
recognizes that some eligible categories of use of proceeds are more impactful than 
others.  For  example,  financing  mandatory  education  is  considered  more  impactful 
than  university  education.  Likewise,  activities  clearly  targeting  vulnerable  target 
groups are considered higher impact than those benefiting all citizens, as per ICMA’s 
Social Bond Guidance.  

 
 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Process for 
project 
selection an 
evaluation 

Management 
of proceeds 

Reporting 

Comunidad de Madrid has a dedicated internal Committee of Selection, Monitoring 
and Evaluation that will meet prior to the issuance of a Sustainability Bond to select 
eligible programmes from the General Budget. Eligible programmes will be required 
to meet the eligibility criteria defined in the Sustainability Bond Framework. 
Sustainalytics would highlight the fact that, as not all activities in the selected budget 
programmes might be eligible per the Sustainability Bond Framework, Comunidad de 
Madrid will provide investors with information regarding the percentage of each 
programme that was eligible for each issuance. This is considered an innovative 
approach.  
In addition, Comunidad de Madrid applies core minimum requirements (e.g. socio-
economic criteria) to all its activities, which ensures that financed activities will be 
targeting the adequate target groups.  
Overall, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Comunidad de Madrid has a robust process 
for the selection process of eligible activities to be financed by its Sustainability Bonds. 

The proceeds of the Sustainability Bond will be allocated to eligible programmes in 
the General Budget of Comunidad de Madrid, corresponding to the fiscal year of the 
Sustainability Bond issuance. The total expenditures required for the eligible 
programmes will equal or exceed the net bond proceeds. In line with best practices, 
an external auditor will verify this information (amounts) within one year from the 
date of the Sustainability Bond issuance. Proceeds from the Sustainability Bonds will 
be immediately allocated. In case this does not occur, management of proceeds 
pending allocation is carried out in line with market practice (i.e. liquid portfolios). 
Furthermore, measures to prevent double counting have been discussed and provide 
enough assurance to investors that this will be avoided. 

Allocation Reporting 
Sustainalytics considers Comunidad de Madrid’s allocation reporting to be aligned with 
market  practices.  Allocation  reporting  will  be  available  to 
investors  within 
approximately one year from the date of the bond issuance until the bond proceeds 
have  been fully allocated. The reporting will produce insights  into the total amount 
allocated  to  the  various  eligible  budgetary  programmes.  This  information  will  be 
externally reviewed and will be publicly available on Comunidad de Madrid’s website. 
 
Impact Reporting 
Comunidad de Madrid has extensive social and environmental reporting in place and 
will strive to publish a dedicated one-off Sustainability Bond impact report based on 
existing  indicators.  While  Sustainalytics  recognizes  that  current  impact  information 
available on Madrid’s website is in line with best market practices, providing detailed 
information  on  Comunidad  de  Madrid’s  programmes  and  several  of  its  benefits, 
Sustainalytics  encourages  Comunidad  de  Madrid  to  strengthen  its  commitment  by 
ensuring that a dedicated impact report will be published for each Sustainability Bond 
issued. This would assure bond investors that impact performance information will be 
easily accessible, and will provide meaningful impact data per bond. 
 

10 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

 
 
Conclusion 
By issuing a Sustainability Bond to finance environmental and social projects that improve the quality of 
life of its citizens and promote the social inclusion of vulnerable populations, Comunidad de Madrid is 
acting in alignment with its clear social and environmental mandate.  
 
Given  the  regional  social  and  environmental  context  described  above,  Sustainalytics  believes  that  the 
eligibility criteria established by Comunidad de Madrid for the proceeds of its Sustainability Bonds will 
result in positive social and environmental impact that is aligned with sustainable development priorities 
such as the UN Sustainable Development Goals, and that will address pressing social and environmental 
challenges relevant not only to the region of Madrid but also to the broader European context.  
 
Sustainalytics  would  highlight  the  fact  that,  as  not  all  activities  in  the  selected  programmes  might  be 
eligible according to the Sustainability Bond Framework, Comunidad de Madrid will provide investors with 
information  regarding  the  percentage  of  each  programme  that  was  eligible  for  each  issuance.  This 
information will be made available in the bond’s allocation reporting. This approach, allowing to include 
relevant  programmes  while  excluding  specific  activities  that  would  not  align  with  the  eligible  use  of 
proceeds, is considered innovative and provides additional transparency to investors.  
 
Based  on  the  above  points,  Sustainalytics  considers  Comunidad  de  Madrid’s  Sustainability  Bond 
Framework to be robust and credible, and in alignment with the Green Bond Principles and  the Social 
Bond Guidance. 
 
 

 

 
 

11 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

APPENDIX I:  DOCUMENTS REVIEWED 
 
Sustainalytics reviewed the following documents for the purposes of writing this report 
 

Number  Document Name 
1 
2 

Comunidad de Madrid General Budget 2016 (Presupuestos Generales) 
Memorias de Actividades – Description of the activities implemented for several eligible 
programmes 

-  Consejeria de Economia, Empleo y Hacienda 
-  Consejeria de Educacion, Juventud y Deport 
-  Consejeria de Medio Ambiente, Administracion local y Ordenacion del territorio 
-  Consejeria de Sanidad 
-  Consejeria de Transportes, Vivienda e Infraestructuras 

Plan de mejora de la atencion sanitaria a personas con enfermedades poco frecuentes de 
la Comunidad de Madrid 2016-2020 
Documento preliminar para la definicion de la estrategia de gestion sostenible de los 
residuos de la Comunidad de Madrid (2017-2024) 
Estrategia de residuos de la Comunidad de Madrid (2006-2016) 
Plan Azul+ - Estrategia de calidad del aire y cambio climatico de la Comunidad de Madrid 
2013-2020 
Inventario de emisiones de gases de effecto invernadero 
Strategy of the Autonomous Community of Madrid against gender violence (2016-2021) 
Plan de inclusion de personas sin hogar de la Comunidad de Madrid (2016-2021) 
Programas y lineas de actuacion de la Direccion General de Atencion a Personas con 
Discapacidad 
Programas y lineas de actuacion de la Direccion General de la Mujer para la asistencia 
integral de las mujeres victimas de violencia de genero y linea de ayudas contra la 
exclusion social 
Informe sobre bonos sociales: actuaciones y programas de la Dirección General de 
Servicios Sociales e Integración Social 
Programas de la agencia madrileña de atención social  
Decree 19/2006 of Comunidad de Madrid (Proceso de adjudicación de viviendas del 
Instituto de la Vivienda de Madrid) 
Decree 52/2016 (Proceso de adjudicación de viviendas del Instituto de la Vivienda de 
Madrid) 
Decree of 23 May 2016 of Comunidad de Madrid (Bases reguladoras para la concesion de 
ayudas a proyectos de inversion para la modernizacion e innovacion de las pymes 
comerciales de la Comunidad de Madrid) 
Programas dirigidos a personas especialmente vulnerables 
Requisitos para ser beneficiario de la prestacion de renta minima de insercion 
Barometro de imigracion de la Comunidad de Madrid 2016 
Tercer plan de accion para personas con discapacidad 2012-2015 

12 

3 

4 

5 
6 

7 
8 
9 
10 

11  

12 

13 
14 

15 

16 

17 
18 
19 
20  

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Datos estadísticos de personas con discapacidad en la comunidad de madrid en 2015 
Indicadores de atencion social – March 2017 
www.madrid.org, accessed March 2017 

 

13 

21 
22 
23 

 

 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted or 
published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only, and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the bonds’ proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 

 

 
 

20 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

APPENDIX III: SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics is an independent ESG and corporate governance research provider, ratings and analysis 
firm supporting investors around the  world with the development and implementation of responsible 
investment  strategies. With 13 offices globally, Sustainalytics partners with institutional investors who 
integrate  environmental,  social  and  governance  information  and  assessments  into  their  investment 
processes.  Today,  the  firm  has  more  than  300  staff  members,  including  170  analysts  with  varied 
multidisciplinary  expertise  of  more  than  40  sectors.  Through  the  IRRI  survey,  investors  selected 
Sustainalytics as the best independent responsible investment research firm for three consecutive years, 
2012 through 2014 and in 2015, Sustainalytics was named among the top three firms for both ESG and 
Corporate Governance research. The firm was also named the Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
Global Capital in 2015. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com  
 
Sustainalytics 
info@sustainalytics.com  
www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

21 

