 

 DEVELOPMENT BANK OF 

JAPAN INC. 

SUSTAINABILITY BOND 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

September 1st, 2017 

Trisha Taneja (Toronto) 

Associate, Advisory Services 
trisha.taneja@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 647 317 3695 
 
 
 
 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
Wakako Mizuta  (Tokyo) 
 
Advisor, Advisory Services 
www.sustainalytics.com 
wakako.mizuta@sustainalytics.com 
 
(+81) 3 4589 4886 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 

James Hawrylak (Tokyo) 

Director, Institutional Relations 
james.hawrylak@sustainalytics.com 
(+81) 3 4589 4886 

  

Manager,  

Advisory Services (Toronto) 

vikram.puppala@sustainalytics.com 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

1. 

Introduction 

2.  Overview of Issuer 

3.  Framework overview 
3.1  Use of Proceeds 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
3.3  Management of Proceeds 
3.4 Reporting 

4  Sustainalytics’ Opinion 

Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the DBJ Sustainability Bond Framework 
Section 2: Sustainability Performance of the Issuer 
Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds 
Conclusion 

APPENDICES 

Appendix 1A: Methodological details of Environmentally Rated Loan Programme (ERLP) 
Appendix 1B: ERLP Assessment Topics 
Appendix 2: Green Building Certification (GBC) Programme 
Appendix 2B: GBC Assessment Topics 
Appendix 3: GRESB ESG rating topics and methodology 
Appendix 4: Sustainalytics’ assessment of the ERLP 
Appendix 5: Sustainalytics’ Assessment of the GBC 
Appendix 6: Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

3 

3 

5 
5 
6 
7 
8 

9 
9 
11 
12 
13 

14 
14 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 

28 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

1. INTRODUCTION 
 
Development Bank of Japan Inc. (“DBJ”) issued a Green Bond in 2014 and a Sustainability Bond in 2015 
and 20161, and has developed an updated sustainability bond framework under which it is planning to 
issue a sustainability bond (the “DBJ Sustainability Bond”). DBJ has engaged Sustainalytics, subsequent to 
the  engagement  in 2015,  to  provide  a second-party  opinion on  its  framework  (the  “DBJ  Sustainability 
Bond Framework”) and the framework’s environmental and, where relevant, social credentials. As part 
of this engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of DBJ’s management team 
to understand the sustainability impact of their business processes and planned use of proceeds, as well 
as  management  of  proceeds  and  reporting  aspects  of  the  DBJ  Sustainability  Bond  Framework. 
Sustainalytics also reviewed relevant public documents and non-public information.  
 
This  document  contains  two  sections:  Framework  Overview  –  summary  of  DBJ  Sustainability  Bond 
Framework and Sustainalytics’ Opinion – an opinion on the framework. 
 
 
2. OVERVIEW OF ISSUER 
DBJ is a 100% government-owned policy-based financial institution headquartered in Tokyo, Japan. The 
bank provides domestic and global financial services to its clients, operating across Japan, the U.S., Europe 
and  Asia.  Throughout  its  history,  DBJ  has  been  devoted  to  regional  development,  environmental 
conservation, basic social infrastructure, and the creation of technology and industry.  
 
Japan Development Bank, the predecessor of DBJ, was established in 1951 to facilitate the reconstruction 
of Japan after the Second World War, specifically in relation to securing a sustainable energy industry. 
Soon  after,  its  activities  expanded  to  include  infrastructure  development,  both  nationally  and 
internationally.  During  the  1970s  and  1980s,  as  a  result  of  growing  social  imbalance  and  increasing 
concerns  in  relation  to  the  stable  supply  of  energy,  Japan  Development  Bank  focused  its  efforts  on 
decrease of the gap in standards of living, pollution control, and regional and urban developments. During 
the late 80s and 90s Japan Development Bank continued to support improvements to social capital. In 
1999, Japan Development Bank and Hokkaido Tohoku Development Finance Public Corporation merged 
to form DBJ. DBJ has focused on three areas: community development, environmental conservation and 
sustainable societies, and the creation of new technologies and industries. In 2008, DBJ was established 
under the Development Bank of Japan Inc. Act. 
 
According to its business model, DBJ “works to resolve the issues its clients face by providing specialised 
financial services involving integrated investments and loans.” It and its affiliates provide and integrate 
the following services:  

 

 

Loans: Provision of medium- and long-term financing, as well as project financing and other forms 
of structured and/or subordinated financing.  
Investment: Provision of mezzanine and equity financing  

 
1DBJ Sustainability Bond, Development Bank of Japan 
http://www.dbj.jp/en/ir/credit/sri/index2.html 

3 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

  Consulting/Advisory  services:  Arrangement of  structured  financing,  provision  of  M&A  advisory 
services, applying DBJ’s industry research function and expertise in environmental and technology 
evaluations.  

  Asset management services: Provision of investment opportunities and supporting services. 

 
Beginning  with  the  anti-pollution  measures  implemented  in  the  late  1960’s  and  early  70’s,  DBJ  has 
provided more than 3 trillion yen in investments and loans for environmental measures. Furthermore, 
DBJ states that it has advanced its commitment on sustainability by issuing the inaugural green bond as 
well as the first and second sustainability bond in 2014, 2015 and 2016, respectively. 
 
According to the fourth medium-term management plan for the year ending 31 March 2018 through the 
year ending 31 March 2020, DBJ also states that it plans to continue to issue a DBJ Sustainability Bond, 
under the Policy on Sustainability, as it seeks to diversify its investor base, connect dedicated investor 
demand with the part of its growing sustainable business, and contribute to the sustainable development 
of Japan and the world. 
 

 

 

 
 

4 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

3. FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 
 
For the purpose of issuing the DBJ Sustainability Bond, DBJ has developed the following DBJ Sustainability 
Bond  Framework,  which  addresses  the  four  key  pillars  of  the  Green  Bond  Principles  (“GBP”)  and  the 
Sustainability Bond Guidelines: use of proceeds, project evaluation and selection process, management 
of proceeds, and reporting. 
 
3.1  Use of Proceeds 
The proceeds of the DBJ Sustainability Bond will be allocated towards financing or refinancing projects 
or businesses that meet the following eligibility criteria. 
 
Eligibility Criteria 
 
The net proceeds, or an amount equal to the net proceeds, of the issuance of the DBJ Sustainability Bonds 
will be allocated, by way of various financial instruments, exclusively to finance or refinance, in whole or 
in part, existing and/or future projects or businesses which meet the following Eligibility Criteria (the “DBJ 
Sustainability Bond Eligibility Criteria” and the financing(s) satisfying the DBJ Sustainability Bond Eligibility 
Criteria is(are) defined as the “Eligible Financing(s)”:  
 

1.  Loans to companies that are rated A, B or C under the DBJ Environmentally Rated Loan 

Programme (“ERLP”)2.  

 

 

2.  Funds to finance or refinance buildings that are rated 3, 4 or 5 stars under the DBJ Green 

Building Certification Programme (“GBC”)3 . 

3.  Funds to finance or refinance companies, buildings, real estate properties or REITs that have a 
‘Green Star’ rating under the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) evaluation 
framework. 
 

4.  Funds to finance or refinance renewable energy projects:  

a.  Financing or Refinancing construction and/or operation of solar, wind (onshore and 
offshore), biomass, geothermal, run-of-river hydropower, and tidal and wave power 
assets 
 

5.  Funds to finance or refinance clean transportation projects or loans to companies exclusively 

for use for clean transportation projects4:  

a. 

Installation and/or maintenance of energy-efficient and/or electric trains  

 
2 http://www.dbj.jp/en/service/finance/enviro/index.html  
3 http://www.dbj.jp/en/service/finance/g_building/index.html  
4 DBJ confirms that in lending to companies, it is able to track use of loans from sustainability bond proceeds to ensure that the loans are directed 
towards eligible clean transporation projects. DBJ also confirms that the amount of loans from sustainability bond proceeds will be equal to or 
less than the amount of CAPEX or OPEX spent by companies on eligible clean transportation projects.  

5 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

b.  (Re)construction, extension, maintenance, and/or upgrade of rail lines 
c. 
d. 

(Re)construction, maintenance, operation and/or upgrade of railway systems and assets 
Infrastructure and components which could help increase the transport capacity and 
improve the efficient movement of people and freight 

 
For methodological details of eligibility criteria, please see Appendices 1, 2 and 3.  
 
 
Exclusionary Criteria 

DBJ has developed a list of exclusionary criteria to be applied to the allocation of the proceeds from the 
DBJ Sustainability Bond issuance. In this regard, DBJ commits to not knowingly allocating the net proceeds 
for the financing of assets/projects/businesses included in the exclusionary criteria. 

 

1.  Businesses dedicated to the manufacture or retail sale and distribution of weapons and small 

arms; or businesses dedicated to the production of products and services supporting the 
manufacture or retail sale of weapons and small arms 

2.  Extraction, refining, or transportation of coal  
3.  Ownership or operation of dedicated gambling establishments/activities  
4.  Biomass plants designed primarily to consume food stocks  
5.  Large-scale hydropower dams 

 

3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
Application of Eligibility and Exclusionary Criteria in Project Selection 
DBJ’s Treasury team is responsible for the selection of financial assets that meet the DBJ Sustainability 
Bond  Eligibility  Criteria  and  for  the  allocation  of  the  DBJ  Sustainability  Bond  proceeds  to  the  selected 
financial assets. All financings and corresponding approved ratings (only applicable to the ERLP and GBC 
programmes as well as the GRESB framework) are tracked in an internal management system. This allows 
DBJ’s  Treasury  team  to  accurately  identify  and  select  the  financial  assets  in  accordance  with  the  DBJ 
Sustainability  Bond  Eligibility  Criteria  and  allocate  the  DBJ  Sustainability  Bond proceeds  appropriately. 
These eligible assets/projects/businesses  and the net proceeds, or an amount equal to the net proceeds, 
allocated to them, are recorded and maintained in the internal management systems, which is used for 
tracking and reporting purposes and appropriately updated from time to time. 
 
Sustainability Objectives  
DBJ  has  a mission  "Applying  financial expertise  to  design  the  future",  and  states  that  it  has  an  aim  of 
conducting business in a manner which resolves the issues of its clients and the larger society and realizes 
the sustainable development of Japan and the world5. In support of its mission, DBJ has developed ‘the 
Long Term Vision 2030’6 and further sets out the Fourth Medium-Term Management Plan for the three-

 
5 Corporate Philosophy, Development Bank of Japan 
http://www.dbj.jp/en/co/info/philosophy.html and http://www.dbj.jp/co/info/philosophy.html  
6 Integrated Report 2017 (Japanese), Development Bank of Japan 

 
 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

year period from FY 2017 throughout FY 2019, which aims to provide solutions for the issues of client and 
society, and makes efforts towards sustainable growth.  
 
In  line  with  its  mission,  under  the  Policy  on  Sustainability,  DBJ  pursues  and  implements  sustainability 
management.7 DBJ defines sustainability management as management directed at creating a sustainable 
society and realizing economic and social value, while consistently improving the process of value creation 
through  communication  with  stakeholders.  The  Sustainability  Committee  discusses  and  considers  the 
sustainable management undertaken by DBJ. 
 
With an aim to achieve this sustainability goal, DBJ has aligned with UNEP (United Nations Environment 
Programme) since signing up to the UNEP Statement by Financial Institutions on the  Environment and 
in  2001. 8  Following  the  Policy  on  Sustainability  and  Environmental 
Sustainable  Development 
Management9, DBJ, through its business activities including investment, lending, consulting/advisory and 
asset management, tackles environmental challenges with the promotion of global warming prevention, 
a recycling-oriented society and other activities, as well as gives consideration to social challenges such 
as human rights, which are both associated with its clients, employees, financial markets, and investors. 
 
Process to Mitigate Environmental and Social Risks 
DBJ has the following processes that consider management of environmental and social risks in its 
financing process: 

  DBJ periodically monitors if borrowers comply with applicable regulations and laws (including 

environmental laws), and if they obtain and maintain governmental permits, approvals, licenses 
and authorizations. If a breach is expected to have a materially adverse effect, and not cured 
within a grace period, DBJ is entitled to request prepayment subject to contractual 
arrangements. 
In respect of asset/structured/project finance, in some cases, DBJ engages an independent 
consultant to undertake due diligence on environmental and social aspects. If this is not the 
case, DBJ assesses the capability and reliability of the borrower in relation to identifying and 
managing environmental and social risks. 

 

  The Sustainability Committee, responsible for considering the incorporation of sustainability and 
ESG insights into the DBJ’s usual business activities, discusses and considers the balance between 
economic and social value (i.e. sustainability management), and maintains communications with 
stakeholders on this topic. 
 

3.3  Management of Proceeds  
The net proceeds, or an amount equal to the net proceeds, from the DBJ Sustainability Bond issuance will 
be held and tracked in DBJ’s treasury until they are allocated to the eligible projects and/or businesses. 
So long as the DBJ Sustainability Bond is outstanding, DBJ aims to allocate the net proceeds, or an amount 
equal to the net proceeds, of the DBJ Sustainability Bond towards the eligible projects and/or businesses. 

 
http://www.dbj.jp/pdf/CSR_disclo/2017/01.pdf 
7 Article 2 of the DBJ Policy on Sustainability 
8 http://www.dbj.jp/en/co/csr/responsibility/management.html   
9 http://www.dbj.jp/en/co/csr/responsibility/management.html  

 
 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Unallocated proceeds will be held in cash and/or a money-market portfolio which will be tracked by DBJ 
Treasury Department. DBJ has internal management systems to track the amount of funds allocated to 
each of the Eligible Financings. 
 
3.4 Reporting  
DBJ will report annually on its website the following information until full allocation of the net proceeds, 
or an amount equal to the net proceeds, from the DBJ Sustainability Bond issuance:  

1.  Allocation in aggregate to each eligibility criterion, and number of businesses/assets/projects 

funded under each eligibility criterion    

2.  The estimate share of financing or refinancing 
3.  The amount of unallocated proceeds and the investments in which these proceeds are held 

Furthermore, DBJ has committed to reporting on the following additional information and impact metrics, 
where relevant:  
 

Type of Eligible Financings 
ERLP 

GBC 

GRESB 

Green Projects 
- Renewable Energy, and 
  Clean Transportation 

Additional Information to be reported 
  Certification vintage 
  Distribution by sector  
  Subject to confidentiality and clients’ prior consent, select  project summaries 
and  key  factors  evaluated  on  specific  green  projects  undertaken  or 
implemented by the clients 

  Certification vintage 
  Subject to confidentiality and clients’ prior consent, two or three case studies 

of underlying green buildings funded by the relevant Sustainability Bond 

  Certification vintage 
  Subject to confidentiality and clients’ prior consent, two or three case studies 
of  underlying  REITs  and  real  estate  properties  funded  with  the  relevant 
Sustainability Bond 

  Distribution by sub-sector and location 
  Subject  to  confidentiality  and  clients’  prior  consent,  high-level  description  of 

select projects 

  Where  feasible,  quantitative  assessment  of  expected  positive  environmental 

impacts on an aggregate basis  

  KPI: estimated carbon avoidance  

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

 
4  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
 
Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the DBJ Sustainability Bond Framework  
Overall, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the DBJ Sustainability Bond Framework creates meaningful 
impact, is transparent, and aligns with the Green Bond Principles 2017 and the Sustainability Bond 
Guidelines 2017. Some considerations in Sustainalytics’ assessment are listed below:  
 

  Renewable Energy and Clean Transportation are recognized by the 2017 Green Bond Principles 

as project categories with clear environmental impact.  

  Sustainalytics has reviewed and provided an assessment of the ERLP, GBC, and GRESB programs, 

and considers these ratings and the associated methodologies as a credible and robust 
assessment of companies’ sustainability performance.  

  DBJ’s disclosure and processes with respect to management of proceeds and project selection 

process are in line with market practices. 

  Sustainalytics encourages DBJ where possible to report on quantitative KPIs such as estimated 

amount of CO2 avoided.  

 
Alignment with Green Bond Principles 2017/Sustainability Bond Guidelines 2017 
Sustainalytics recognizes that the DBJ Sustainability Bond is not exclusively project based, i.e. DBJ may 
also allocate the net proceeds to finance lending and investment activities in companies. Sustainalytics 
recognizes  that  (i)  the  Green  Bond  Principles  and  Sustainability  Bond  Guidelines  prefer  project  based 
lending,  and  that  (ii)  in  general,  there  is  lesser  transparency  associated with  reporting on  non-project 
based  financing.  However,  DBJ  has  confirmed  to  Sustainalytics  a  commitment  to  disclosure  and 
transparency,  and  has  also  made  a  commitment,  where  and  to  the  extent  possible,  to  track  projects 
(including  without  limitation  capital  expenditure,  operation,  maintenance  and  R&D)  to  which  the  net 
proceeds, or an amount equal to the net proceeds, of the DBJ Sustainability Bond are (deemed to be) 
allocated, through their corporate lending and investment activities. Sustainalytics also recognizes that 
DBJ is subject to confidentiality constraints when reporting on the DBJ Sustainability Bond. Taking into 
account this constraint,  their  commitment  and the nature of the relevant  eligible projects/businesses, 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the DBJ Sustainability Bond is transparent. 
 
Based  on  Sustainalytics’  assessment  of  the  ERLP,  GBC,  and  GRESB  programs,  Sustainalytics  is  of  the 
opinion that the DBJ Sustainability Bond creates impact in the context of particularly Japan as well as the 
world, and contributes to DBJ’s sustainability strategy and objective.  
 
While the DBJ Sustainability Bond is not exclusively project based, DBJ may allocate the net proceeds to 
finance  lending  and  investment  activities  to  companies  that  meet  well  established  impact  criteria. 
Sustainalytics considers the DBJ Sustainability Bond to be transparent and to create credible impact. In 
this sense, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the DBJ Sustainability Bond aligns with the Green Bond 
Principles 2017, and the Sustainability Bond Guidelines 2017. For details please see Appendix 6.  
 
 

 
 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

 
Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the strength of the ERLP, GBC, and GRESB programs  
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the ERLP methodology adequately assesses companies on the key 
environmental issues and is effective in identifying the environmental leaders. For a detailed assessment 
of the ERLP see Appendix 4.  
 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that by selecting buildings with 5, 4 or 3 stars of the GBC programme, DBJ 
is allocating the net proceeds, or an amount equal to the net proceeds of the DBJ Sustainability Bond to 
the buildings with top environmental performance in Japan. For a detailed assessment of the GBC see 
Appendix 5. 
 
Sustainalytics’ assessment of GRESB  
Sustainalytics  reviewed  the  GRESB  Framework  in  detail  and  compared  it  with  its  own  ESG  rating 
methodology to determine if the GRESB adequately evaluates real estate assets on key environmental 
and sustainability metrics. 
 
Sustainalytics considers the GRESB rating to be robust for the following reasons:  
 

The methodology that GRESB employs considers issues  similar to the  Sustainalytics ESG rating 
framework  and green bond issuer assessment. A strong and typical ratings methodology rates 
companies  in  the  areas  of  commitment,  disclosure,  and  performance.  GRESB’s  methodology 
assesses companies in the abovementioned areas, under the broad themes of management and 
policy, and implementation and measurement.  

• 

  GRESB rates REITs, real estate property funds and developers on a score of 0-100. The rated are 
divided  into  4  rating  categories,  ‘Green  Starter,  ‘Green  Walk’,  ‘Green  Talk’,  and  ‘Green  Star’, 
where the category of ‘Green Star’ represents the highest scoring (i.e. with a score of a minimum 
of 50 under the two themes of Management and Policy, and Implementation and Measurement).  
  The ‘Green Star’ label not only identifies top performers, but also recognizes the rated entities for 
integration  of  sustainability  issues.  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  such  recognition 
encourages  further  disclosure  and  improvement  around  performance  of  these  sustainability 
issues.  

  This is validated by GRESB, which confirms that the average GRESB Score currently stands at 56, 

as compared to 47 in 2014.10 GRESB has collected data to demonstrate that companies, real 
estate funds and REITs reporting to GRESB improve performance over time. For example, GRESB 
states that entities reporting for 7 years outperform the global average by 12 points.   

  While nature of data collection and submission is voluntary , GRESB verifies submitted data; 
  GRESB assessment areas include market best practices like LEED certifications;  
  The methodology and indicators are aligned with credible third-party norms like Global 

Reporting Initiative (GRI) and PRI; 

  GRESB collects and reports on data on key quantitative performance indicators, like total water 

saved, and total amount of CO2 emissions mitigated. 

 

 
10 https://api.gresb.com/results2015/results  

 
 

10 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Based on the above, Sustainalytics considers the GRESB rating meaningful and credible and that “Green 
Star” rating appropriately identifies leaders in green/sustainable building horizon in Japan. By financing 
only ‘Green Star’ rated REITs, companies or real estate funds DBJ is aligned with industry best practice.  

 
Section 2: Sustainability Performance of the Issuer  
DBJ  has  set  clear  sustainability  commitments  though  its  policies  and  management  plan.  DBJ’s 
Sustainability policy emphasizes on: 
 

 

 

identifying  material  sustainability  issues  in  the  relevant  fields  based  on  trends  in  government 
policy as well as legislation and norms regarding ESG criteria in Japan and throughout the world11; 
incorporating the recognition of the necessity for a sustainable society into its investing, lending, 
asset management and other business activities12; and 

  encouraging  and  supporting,  by  way  of  financing  activities  (particularly  via  certification 
programs 13 )  and  academic  research,  the  sustainable  management 14  and  the  improved  ESG 
performance of its clients15, 

 
Furthermore, DBJ develops the Fourth Medium-term Management Plan for the three-year period from 
FY 2017 throughout FY 2019, which aims to contribute to the creation of a sustainable society. The plan 
lays out the initiatives including the DBJ Environmentally Rated Loan and DBJ Green Building Certification 
programmes, as well as the integrated financial services in infrastructure such as energy, transportation 
and urban development, to further create both economic and social value.  
 
As reflected above, DBJ has strong sustainability commitments for achieving a sustainable society while 
outlining a sustainability strategy through its mission, policies, and management plan. Additionally, the 
Policy  on  Sustainability  and  the  current  management  plan  clearly  demonstrate  its  commitments  on 
contributing to positive environmental and social impacts into its stakeholders and society through its 
financial services such as investment, lending and asset management. Sustainalytics is of opinion that the 
DBJ Sustainability Bond Framework is aligned with the DBJ’s mission, the Policy on Sustainability as well 
as the Fourth Medium-term Management Plan, and DBJ is well positioned to issue a sustainability bond. 
 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the DBJ Sustainability Bond Framework is aligned with DBJ’ corporate 
mission and sustainability and management strategies. 
 

 
11 Policy on Sustainability, Development Bank of Japan 
http://www.dbj.jp/en/co/csr/regular/index.html 
12 Policy on Sustainability, Development Bank of Japan 
http://www.dbj.jp/en/co/csr/regular/index.html 
13 Certification Programs, Development Bank of Japan 
http://www.dbj.jp/en/service/finance/rating/index.html 
14 DBJ's Environmental Management, Develppment Bank of Japan 
http://www.dbj.jp/en/co/csr/responsibility/management.html 
15 Integrated Report 2017 (Japanese), Development Bank of Japan 
http://www.dbj.jp/pdf/CSR_disclo/2017/01.pdf 

 
 

11 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Well positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated with the projects  
DBJ’s  management  of  environmental  and  social  risks  in  its  financing  process  is  described  in  this 
framework.  Overall,  Sustainalytics  does  not  identify  considerable  environmental  and  social  risk  with 
respect to lending to sustainably rated companies through the ERLP, GBC, and GRESB programs. Financing 
construction of clean transportation and renewable energy can be associated with certain environmental 
and  social  risks  such  as  loss  of  biodiversity,  pollution,  and  worker  health  and safety.  Given  the  use of 
proceeds, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that DBJ’s general process to consider environmental and social 
factors in its financing process is sufficient.  
 
Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds  
Importance of green real estate in climate change mitigating in Japan 
Japan  has  developed the  Plan  of  Global  Warming  Countermeasures  that  sets  the  reduction  targets  of 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emission for medium and long term, in which the country is committed to reducing 
26 % GHG emissions from 2013 level by 2030 in line with the Paris Agreement (as a medium term goal) 
and further pursing 80% reduction by 2050 (as a long term goal)16. As the main policies and measures, the 
plan addresses the promotion of compliance of energy saving standards for new buildings, energy saving 
renovation of existing buildings, and Zero Energy Buildings, as well as the intensive management of energy 
by  adopting  building  energy  management  system  and  energy  saving  diagnostics17.  These  government 
measures  have  led  to  an  increases  pressure  for  the  buildings  to  be  environmentally  sustainable  and 
specially to contribute to the national anti-global warming plan and GHG reduction targets.  
 
Given  this  context,  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  financing  sustainable  buildings,  real  estate 
properties and REITs will create meaningful environmental impact in an important area for Japan, and will 
contribute to reduction of GHG emission targets in the country.  
 
Alignment with/contribution to SDGs 
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were set in September 2015 and form an agenda for achieving 
sustainable development by the year 2030. The DBJ Sustainability Bond advances the following SDG goals 
and targets:  
 

Use of Proceeds 
Category 
DBJ  Environmentally 
Rated 
Loan 
Programme (ERLP) 

SDG 

SDG target 

13. Climate Action 

13.3  Improve  education,  awareness-raising  and 
human  and  institutional  capacity  on  climate 
change  mitigation,  adaptation,  impact  reduction 
and early warning 

 
16 Cabinet Decision on the Plan for Global Warming Countermeasures, Ministry of Environment, Japan 
https://www.env.go.jp/en/headline/2238.html 
17  Overvoew of the Plan for Global Warming Countermeasures, Ministry of Environment, Japan 
https://www.env.go.jp/press/files/en/676.pdf 
 

 
 

12 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

DBJ  Green  Building 
Certification 
Programme 

Estate 

Global  Real 
Sustainability 
Benchmark (GRESB) 

13. Climate Action 

13. Climate Action 

Clean Transportation 

9.  Industry,  Innovation 
and Infrastructure 

Renewable Energy 

7. Affordable and Clean 
Energy 

13.3  Improve  education,  awareness-raising  and 
human  and  institutional  capacity  on  climate 
change  mitigation,  adaptation,  impact  reduction 
and early warning 
13.3  Improve  education,  awareness-raising  and 
human  and  institutional  capacity  on  climate 
change  mitigation,  adaptation,  impact  reduction 
and early warning 
9.1  Develop  quality,  reliable,  sustainable  and 
resilient  infrastructure,  including  regional  and 
transborder  infrastructure,  to  support  economic 
development and human well-being, with a focus 
on affordable and equitable access for all. 
7.2  By  2030,  increase  substantially  the  share  of 
renewable energy in the global energy mix. 

 
 
Conclusion  
While  recognizing  that  the  DBJ  Sustainability  Bond  is  not  exclusively  project  based,  i.e.  DBJ  may  also 
allocate the proceeds to finance lending and investment activities to companies, Sustainalytics considers 
the bond to be transparent and to create credible impact. This assessment is based on: (i) DBJ’s stated 
commitment to transparency and disclosure given the nature of the relevant eligible projects/businesses, 
and  its  confidentiality  constraints  (ii)  Sustainalytics’  assessment  of  DBJ’s  processes  with  respect  to 
management  of  proceeds  and  project  selection  process  as  aligned  with  market  practices,  (iii) 
Sustainalytics’ assessment of the ERLP, GBC and GRESB programmes as a credible and robust assessment 
of companies’ sustainability performance and impact, and (iv) the contribution of the DBJ Sustainability 
Bond  to  the  organization’s  sustainability  strategy  and  objective.  In  this  sense,  Sustainalytics  is  of  the 
opinion that the DBJ Sustainability Bond aligns with the Green Bond Principles 2017 and the Sustainability 
Bond Guidelines 2017.  
 
 

 

 
 

13 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

APPENDICES 
 
Appendix 1A: Methodological details of Environmentally Rated Loan 
Programme (ERLP)  
 
The ERLP Rating Process follows three key steps. 
 
Step 1: Preliminary Survey 

  Clients are asked to fill in a preliminary survey sheet for negative screening. 

 

Step 2: Full Assessment  

  After the preliminary survey, DBJ will conduct its full assessment based on the research of public 

information of the company’s environmental efforts (for example a CSR Report). 

  DBJ will then interview clients to collect non-public information on their environmental efforts. 

 

Step 3: Rating and Monitoring 

  Ratings will be assigned according to the points scored in the assessment. 
  Clients enter into a covenant to maintain the level of environmental effort until redemption of 

 

the loan. If the covenant is breached, DBJ will review the rating. 
If such breach is not cured within a certain period specified in a loan agreement, resulting in the 
borrower ceasing to be rated or the applicable rating to meet the Eligibility Criteria, the 
corresponding loans will be removed from the allocation and replaced with other Eligible 
Financings (not be limited to the ERLP).  

 
The assessment undertaken by DBJ incorporates the following key areas: 

1.  General Management 
2.  Business Activities 
3.  Environmental Performance 

 

The key areas are broken down into sub-sectors which are weighted for importance. DBJ provides loans 
to companies rated A, B, C or D and excludes companies rated “None”. In addition, for the companies that 
are rated A or B, DBJ provides a discount on loan interest rates (for companies rated C or D loans are 
offered at regular rates). An overview of the assessment topics is provided in Appendix 1B. 

 
 

14 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

15 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Appendix 1B: ERLP Assessment Topics  
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

16 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Appendix 2: Green Building Certification (GBC) Programme  
 
As part of its financing activities, DBJ offers “Green Building Certification” (“GBC”), in order to support 
its clients who own or operate real estate properties with high standards of environmental and social 
features. The certification is available for office buildings, logistics facilities, as well as retail facilities.  
Since February 2014, following the partnership development, Japan Real Estate Institute and DBJ have 
jointly undertaken the certification assessment. 
 
In order for buildings to be certified “green”, they must undergo an assessment by DBJ. This assessment 
is intended to ensure that the construction takes into account environmental considerations. 
Additionally, it ensures that the buildings take other responsible factors into account, including:  
•  Disaster-prevention and anti-crime measures;  
•  Tenants’ comfort and convenience;  
•  Harmony with the surrounding environment;  
•  Collaboration with stakeholders (including tenants and investors); and  
•  Environmental Investor Relations activities.  

 

 
Once a property has successfully received the certification, DBJ will support the financial needs for new 
developments and refurbishments. Further details about the areas of assessment under GBC are 
provided in Appendix 2A. 

 

As a result of the assessment, properties may receive one of the following certifications: 
 
 

 

 
 

17 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Appendix 2B: GBC Assessment Topics 
 

 

 
 

 

18 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Appendix 3: GRESB ESG rating topics and methodology  
Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (“GRESB”) is an industry-driven organization that assesses 
the environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance of real assets and infrastructure globally.  
 
  ESG  performance  is  assessed  through  a  universal  GRESB  score  assigned  to  all  properties, 

infrastructure, and funds covered by GRESB.  

  The  GRESB  score  is  based  on  a  voluntary  reporting  assessment  or  survey.  The  content  of  the 
assessment is driven by what  investors and the industry consider to be material issues in the  ESG 
performance of real assets.  

  The overall GRESB Score is assessed on two dimensions: Management & Policy and Implementation 

& Measurement. The combination of these two dimensions results in a final GRESB score. 

  The two dimensions are assessed through seven different aspects (see figure below)18 
  The GRESB rating has four rating categories/labels: Green Starter, Green Walk, Green Talk, and Green 
Star. Green Star is the top performing category, and requires a minimum score of 50 for each of the 
two  dimensions listed above.  

 

 

Figure 1: Seven aspects of GRESB under the two dimensions of Management & Policy and Implementation & Measurement 

 

 

 

 
18 https://gresb.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/07/2016_Global_Snapshot.pdf 
 

 
 

19 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Appendix 4: Sustainalytics’ assessment of the ERLP  
 
The DBJ Environmentally Rated Loan Programme (“ERLP”): Sustainalytics reviewed the ERLP in detail 
and compared it with its own ESG rating methodology to determine if the ERLP adequately evaluates 
companies on key environmental aspects. 
 
Sustainalytics  reviewed  the  15  assessment  topics  (see  appendix  1A),  all  the  indicators  within  the 
assessment items, evaluation criteria and the scoring to determine if these cover the wide range of topics 
and  assessment  areas  covered  by  Sustainalytics’  own  ratings  methodology.  Key  points  from  the 
assessment are below: 

  Sustainalytics rates companies on 1) preparedness (commitment), 2) disclosure and 3) 

performance (qualitative and quantitative) which are typical areas of assessment in most rating 
methodologies.  Although the questions in the ERLP framework are not explicitly grouped under 
the above mentioned areas, they are adequately captured within each assessment item.  
  The Environmental Performance area in the ERLP aims to capture detailed information on 

quantitative metrics such as energy use, GHG emissions, water, waste, and other resource use. 
Sustainalytics views this as an area of strength in the ERLP methodology. 

  The ERLP has different screening sheets for different types of companies such as manufacturing 

companies, leasing companies, retail trading companies, transportation companies, logistics 
companies and so on. This allows DBJ to carry out assessment relevant to a specific company 
type. 

  Rating companies on commitment, disclosure and performance needs to be complemented by 

assessing companies on major ESG events or controversies. DBJ, aims to capture major ESG risks 
by asking companies to report such events as part of the rating and conducts its own research to 
identify companies’ involvement in negative events. 

 
Based on this assessment Sustainalytics is confident that the ERLP methodology adequately assesses 
companies on the key environmental issues and is effective in identifying the environmental leaders. 
Sustainalytics reviewed several companies that were rated as leaders by DBJ and found that they did not 
have any major controversies. 
 
The ERLP incentivizes companies to improve their environmental performance by providing discounted 
interest rates for top-rated companies. In addition, companies with ratings lower than D are not eligible 
for loans under the ERLP. Furthermore, DBJ updates the assessment criteria annually which could result 
in higher thresholds, thereby making it difficult for a company to achieve the same rating without making 
reasonable  improvements  the  next  time  the  companies  borrow  from  DBJ.  The  fact  that  quite  a  few 
companies that had previously received ratings and loans under the ERLP have returned to apply for loans 
under ERLP programme, and qualified under a more stringent assessment indicates the programme has 
contributed to improve environmental performance of the company. In this way, DBJ is encouraging its 
borrowers to continually improve their environmental performance. In addition, by having a minimum 
requirement for loan qualification and providing incentives for high performers, DBJ is providing a clear 
signal  to  the  market  that  environmental  impact  is  a  key  consideration  for  its  lending  products. 
Furthermore,  the  companies  that  receive  high  scores  benefit  from  enhanced  reputation  among  their 
peers. 

20 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Appendix 5: Sustainalytics’ Assessment of the GBC 
 
DBJ initiated its Green Building Certification (GBC) programme in 2011 and, as of March 2017, has certified 
227 office buildings, 77 logistics facilities, 55 commercial facilities and 35 residential facilities. GBC is a 
certification that is independent from DBJ’s loan, therefore, the GBC rating does not affect terms of the 
loan. However, only those loans that receive 3 stars or above will qualify as the Eligible Financings in the 
DBJ Sustainability Bond Framework.  
 
In FY 2010, DBJ assessed a sample of Japan’s REIT buildings (about 100 buildings) and the assessment 
resulted in about 50% of the stock akin to 2-star GBC-rated buildings and most of the highly rated buildings 
(as defined by other 3rd party agencies) were similar to 3-star GBC-rated buildings. This indicates that 
Japan REIT buildings with 4 or 5 stars under GBC programme have higher environmental performance 
than most buildings in Japan that receive top ratings from 3rd party agencies.  
 
Therefore, by selecting buildings with 5, 4 or 3 stars, DBJ is allocating the net proceeds, or an amount 
equal  to  the  net  proceeds  of  the  DBJ  Sustainability  Bond  to  the  buildings  with  top  environmental 
performance in Japan. 
 
With  the  GBC,  DBJ  rates  buildings  based  on  improvements  in  energy  efficiency,  natural  resource  use, 
sourcing of renewable energy and third-party certification (LEED, BREEAM etc.), in addition to such other 
factors as amenities, risk management, community and partnership. According to DBJ, the interest in its 
GBC  has  increased  over  the  years  as  property  owners  value  the  GBC  as  a  way  to  differentiate  their 
buildings from other buildings. Given this interest, DBJ has expanded the GBC to cover office buildings, 
retail  and  logistic  facilities.  Going  forward,  DBJ  aims  to  foster  a  correlation  between  a  building’s  GBC 
ratings and its economic value, creating a market in which green buildings are valued appropriately. In 
addition, the GBC scoring sheet/model is revised annually, and in this way, the asset owners willing to 
maintain the rating level assigned on their assets are encouraged to increase their environmental efforts 
and improve environmental performance. 
 
By selecting A, B or C rated companies under ERLP and buildings that are rated 5, 4 or 3 stars under GBC 
programme, DBJ is using allocating the net proceeds, or an amount equal to the net proceeds of the DBJ 
Sustainability Bond issuance to fund companies/buildings that provide the highest positive sustainability 
impact. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

21 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics  is  an  independent  ESG  and  corporate  governance  research,  ratings  and  analysis  firm 
supporting  investors  around  the  world  with  the  development  and  implementation  of  responsible 
investment  strategies. With 13 offices globally, Sustainalytics partners with institutional investors who 
integrate  environmental,  social  and  governance  information  and  assessments  into  their  investment 
processes.  Today,  the  firm  has  more  than  300  staff  members,  including  170  analysts  with  varied 
multidisciplinary  expertise  of  more  than  40  sectors.  Through  the  IRRI  survey,  investors  selected 
Sustainalytics as the best independent responsible investment research firm for three consecutive years, 
2012 through 2014 and in 2015, Sustainalytics was named among the top three firms for both ESG and 
Corporate Governance research. The firm was also named the Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
Global Capital in 2015. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com  
 
Sustainalytics 
info@sustainalytics.com  
www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 

28 

