 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 FIBRIA GREEN BOND 

 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND PARTY 

OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

 

November 7th, 2016 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 

Trisha Taneja (Toronto) 

Catarina da Silva (Amsterdam) 

Charlotte Peyraud (New York) 

Advisor, Advisory Services 
trisha.taneja@sustainalytics.com 
(+1 ) 647 317 3695 

Senior Advisor, Advisory Services 
catarina.dasilva@sustainalytics.com 
(+31) 20 205 00 45 

Senior Advisor, Institutional Relations 
charlotte.peyraud@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 646 518 0184 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Vikram Puppala  

Vikram Puppala  

Vikram Puppala  

© Sustainalytics 2016 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND PARTY OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

1.  Preface 

2. 

Introduction 

3.  Framework overview 
3.1  Use of Proceeds 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
3.3  Management of Proceeds 
3.4  Reporting 

4  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 

Sustainability Performance of Issuer 
Sustainalytics’ Opinion on Fibria’s Green Bond Framework 
Conclusion 

APPENDICES 

Appendix 1: Documents Reviewed 
Appendix 2: Sustainalytics’ Analysis of FSC and Cerflor (PEFC) Certifications 
Appendix 3: Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

1 

3 

3 

4 
4 
7 
7 
8 

9 
9 
11 
12 

13 
13 
14 
15 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

1. PREFACE 
 
Fibria Overseas Finance Ltd. (Fibria), with the corporate guarantee of Fibria Celulose S.A., a Brazilian pulp 
company active in the global forest products market, intends to issue a Green Bond to finance projects 
that will improve its environmental performance. The company has engaged Sustainalytics to provide a 
second opinion on Fibria’s Green Bond Framework and on the bond’s environmental credentials. As part 
of this engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with Fibria’s treasury, legal and sustainability teams 
to  understand  the  use  of proceeds,  management  of  proceeds  and  reporting  aspects of  Fibria’s  Green 
Bond, as well as the company’s sustainability strategy. Sustainalytics also reviewed relevant public and 
internal documents from Fibria. This document contains two sections: Framework Overview – a summary 
of Fibria’s Green Bond framework; and Sustainalytics’ Opinion – an opinion on the framework. 
  
2. INTRODUCTION 
 
Fibria is a pulp company with 969,000 hectares of forest plantations in Brazil. The company has an annual 
production capacity of 5.3 million tons, with mills located in Três Lagoas (Mato Grosso do Sul), Aracruz 
(Espírito Santo), Jacareí (São Paulo), besides Veracel, a mill in Eunápolis (Bahia), in Joint-Operation with 
Stora Enso. In partnership with Cenibra, it operates Portocel, in Aracruz, the only Brazilian port specialized 
in pulp shipments.  
 
Fibria  produces  pulp  from  eucalyptus  and  is  the  world’s  largest  producer  of  market  pulp  in  terms  of 
production capacity, with the majority of its exports sold to Europe, North America and Asia. Fibria’s long-
term  business  strategies  include  increasing  its  market  share  in  the  international  pulp  market  and 
developing  state-of-the-art  technologies  to 
its 
environmental impact. With its operations based entirely on renewable forest plantations, Fibria has a 
total forest base covering 969,000 hectares of land, of which 338,000 hectares are native forests that have 
been  set  aside  for  environmental  conservation.  All  Fibria  units  have  been  certified  by  the  Forest 
Stewardship Council® (FSC®)1 or the Brazilian Forest Certification Programme (Cerflor), which is part of 
the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC). 
 
Fibria’s  vision  to  consolidate  the  planted  forest  area  as  a  generator  of  profits  in  tandem  with 
environmental conservation, social inclusion and improved quality of life is reflected in its Sustainability 
Policy. This Policy, applicable to all units and subsidiaries, states that Fibria aims to consider the social and 
environmental  context  of  its  operations,  while  promoting  the  identification,  prevention,  resolution  or 
mitigation  of  the  social,  environmental  and  economic  impacts  of  its  activities.  In  line  with  this 
commitment, the company publishes a yearly sustainability report in which it outlines its short- and long-
term sustainability goals and reports on its key social and environmental performance indicators. These 
include  the  company’s  efforts  on  sustainable  forestry  management,  local  community  relations, 
greenhouse gas emissions and sequestration, waste management, among others.  
 

its  operational  efficiency  and  reduce 

improve 

 
 

 

 

3 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Fibria is issuing a Green Bond, to help finance projects that will improve its environmental sustainability 
across its global business divisions and operations. The bond proceeds will finance activities focused on 
1) sustainable forest management, 2) restoration of native forests and conservation of biodiversity, 3) 
waste  management,  4)  sustainable  water  management,  and  5)  generation  of  energy  from  renewable 
sources. 
 
3. FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 
 
Fibria Overseas Finance Ltd., with the corporate guarantee of Fibria Celulose S.A., is issuing a Green Bond 
that  will  fund  projects  focused  on  environmental  sustainability  across  the  company’s  global  business 
divisions and operations.  For this Green Bond issuance, a framework has been created that follows the 
four key pillars of the Green Bond Principles 2016 (“GBP”): 

  Use of Proceeds 
  Selection Process 
  Management of Proceeds 
  Reporting 

 
 
3.1   Use of Proceeds 
An  amount  equal  to  the  net  proceeds  of  the  Green  Bond  will  be  allocated  to  projects  that  meet  the 
eligibility criteria specified below, including (i) existing projects financed during the two years preceding 
the issue date of the Green Bond, (ii) projects committed to prior to the issue date of the Green Bond but 
financed following the issue date of the Green Bond and (iii) projects committed to and financed after the 
issue date of the Green Bond.  
 
3.1.1  Eligibility Criteria 
To be eligible for the green bond proceeds, the projects funded must meet one or more of the following 
eligibility criteria: 

 
1.  SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT  

 
Use  of  proceeds:  Proceeds  of  the  green  bond  will  be  allocated  to  capital  expenditures  necessary  to 
sustainably  manage  eucalyptus  forest  plantations  that  are  certified  by  FSC®  or  Cerflor  (PEFC).  This 
includes: 
 

(i) 

New planting and replanting activities such as:  
a.  Production2 and acquisition of eucalyptus seedlings  
b.  Preparation of soil for the plantation of seedlings, including subsoiling and harrowing 

activity 

c.  Planting of seedlings 

 
2 Fibria’s eucalyptus clones are the result of conventional genetic improvement processes, as a result of vegetative propagation procedures. No 
genetically-modified organisms are used in commercial plantations. The bond proceeds will not be used in any activity related to GM trees.  

 

 

4 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

d.  Protection and maintenance of planted seedlings up to harvest 

Context:  As  a  part  of  its  sustainability  strategy,  Fibria  has  made  two  long-term  commitments:  (i)  to 
optimize the use of natural resources, and (ii) to contribute to mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions. In 
keeping with these two goals, Fibria has set targets to achieve a one-third reduction in the amount of land 
it uses to produce pulp, and to increase the net capture from forests from 5.5 million tCO2eq, in 2011, to 
11.1 million tCO2eq, in 2025. Fibria has identified sustainable management of forests  as an important 
means to achieve progress towards these targets.  
 

2.  RESTORATION OF NATIVE FORESTS AND CONSERVATION OF BIODIVERSITY  

 
Use of Proceeds: Proceeds of the green bond will be allocated to inputs and services (capital and 
operational expenditures) required for: 
 

(i) 

Restoration of native forest cover in degraded land such as:  
a.  Acquisition of native Brazilian seedlings 
b.  Labor costs associated with planting native Brazilian seedlings in degraded land 
c.  Labor and capital costs associated with creating ecological corridors and mosaics in 
eucalyptus plantations so they can serve as wildlife and flora habitat conservation  

d.  Funding studies that evaluate and monitor the conservation of High Conservation Value 

(HCV) areas  
 

Context:  As  a  part  of  its  sustainability  strategy,  Fibria  states  a  long-term  commitment  to  protect 
biodiversity. In keeping with this goal, Fibria has set a target to restore 40,000 hectares of its own land 
between 2012 and 2025. These projects will also contribute to Fibria’s long-term goal to double carbon 
sequestration into the atmosphere by 2025. 
 

3.  WASTE MANAGEMENT 

 
Use  of  Proceeds:  Proceeds  of  the  Green  Bond  may  be  allocated  to  the  construction,  installation, 
operations, and upgrade of waste facilities that:  
  

(i) 

(ii) 

Reduce the generation of waste such as:  
a.  Equipment to reduce chemical usage and waste generated in the wood cooking process  
b.  Equipment to increase the efficiency of filtration and the removal of dregs generated in 
the causticizing process. This ensures the recovery of caustic soda through purges in the 
system, and reduces the volume of waste (dregs) generated. 

c.  Equipment to recover fibers (which are reused as either biomass or commercialized for 

packaging) and minimize fiber waste 

 
Reuse waste in processes such as:  
a. 

Installation of a biological sludge dryer in the wastewater treatment plant. This results in 
the dry waste being used as biomass in the biomass boiler. 

b.  Separation and recovery of methanol waste to reuse as fuel in the lime kilns 

 

 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

c.  Reduction of excessive levels of sedimentation in emergency lagoons through dredging 
in  order  to  improve  effluent  treatment. Dredged material  will  be  evaluated  for  use  in 
composting or soil corrective products.  

d.  Transformation of waste of the industrial process into sub products (ex. soil correctives) 

 

Context: As a part of its sustainability strategy Fibria states that it has an objective to avoid and prevent 
pollution related to wastewater, solid waste and air emissions. The company aims to achieve this through 
effective waste management by reducing, reusing, and recycling waste. Between 2012 and 2025, Fibria 
has a target to reduce the amount of solid waste disposed in Fibria’s or third-party landfills by 91%. 
 

4.  SUSTAINABLE WATER MANAGEMENT - WATER USAGE EFFICIENCY  

 
Use of Proceeds: Proceeds of the Green Bond may be allocated to construction, installation, operations 
and upgrades of water facilities that:  
 

(i) 

(ii) 

 

Reduce water consumption such as:  
a.  Equipment to reduce the consumption of water in industrial processes, such as reducing 

consumption of water used for sealing vacuum pumps  
 

Allow for water reuse in industrial processes such as:  
a.  Equipment that would facilitate reuse of water in industrial processes, such as reusing 

water that was previously released as effluent 

Context:  In  its  sustainability  strategy,  Fibria  states  that  it  strives  to  conserve  its  water  resources.  The 
company  monitors  water  withdrawal  in  its  forest  management  activities  and  has  been  implementing 
measures to reduce water withdrawal in its operations. In its 2015 sustainability report, Fibria has stated 
the intention to develop water goals in 2016 for nurseries, planted forests, and industry. 

 

5.  RENEWABLE ENERGY – GENERATION OF ENERGY FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES  

 
Use of Proceeds: Proceeds of the Green Bond may be allocated to construction, installation, operations 
and upgrades of renewable energy facilities that: 
  

(i) 

Increase production of renewable energy from waste biomass sources (waste to energy) 
such as: 
a.  Equipment to increase the efficiency of the biomass boiler to increase energy generated 

from biomass 

 
Context:  Fibria  states that it  is aims to reduce  its  energy footprint  and shift  from fossil fuel energy to 
renewable energy. 90%3  of the energy produced by Fibria is renewable and includes biomass energy from 
waste biomass resulting from the production process (i.e. liquid biomass, wood chips, biological sludge 

 
3 The remaining 10% is primarily natural gas and oil which is used when there is equipment maintenance and general stoppage at the mill. 
Fibria states that aiming for 100% renewable energy would not be a realistic target 

 

 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

and primary sludge). All three mills are wholly energy self-sufficient, and two (Aracruz and Três Lagoas) 
export a surplus of energy to the grid.  
 
 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
To evaluate and select Green Bonds projects Fibria has created a Green Bond Sustainability Team that 
will: 

(i) 

(ii) 

Select  projects  for  funding  through  green  bond  proceeds  based  on  compliance  with  the 
eligibility criteria as described in the framework; and, 
Recommend an allocation of proceeds to eligible projects. 

 
The  Green  Bond  Sustainability  Team  is  comprised  of  representatives  from  the  Treasury,  Legal, 
Environment,  CAPEX  and  Sustainability  departments  and  is  overseen  by  the  Sustainability  Executive 
Officer.  The team will recommend to the finance department specific projects for allocation of the bond 
proceeds. These recommendations will be made on an annual basis and will include  past, current and 
future projects. Fibria’s Green Bond Sustainability Team has also identified the eligible criteria for the use 
of proceeds, closely connected to Fibria’s Sustainability strategy and specifically its sustainability long-
term targets for 2025. 
 
Fibria’s  Green  Bond  Sustainability  Team  also  oversees  the  purchases  and  investments  made  in 
environmental initiatives.  
 
 

3.3        Management of Proceeds  
Proceeds may be allocated to Fibria subsidiaries’ projects that meet the eligibility criteria, and that are 
committed to either up to two years before the settlement of the bonds or after the settlement date and 
before the maturity date of the Green Bond. 
 
The  proceeds  from  the  Green  Bond  will  be  allocated  and  managed  by  Fibria’s Finance  Department 
following  specific  recommendations  by  the  Green  Bond  Sustainability  Team  on  project  selection.  The 
finance  team  has  an  internal  management  system  that  will  track  the  allocation  of  proceeds  to  such 
projects using spreadsheets, including brief descriptions of the projects, the regions in which the projects 
are located, and the amount of proceeds allocated to the projects.  
 
Pending allocation, net proceeds from the sale of the notes may be invested in cash, cash equivalents 
and/or marketable securities, in accordance with Fibria’s cash management policies. 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

3.4    Reporting  
Throughout  the  life  of  the  notes,  Fibria  will  keep  records  in connection  with  the  allocation of the  net 
proceeds and will make publicly available on its website (see www.fibria.com.br/en) information on the 
allocation of the net proceeds, to be renewed annually until full allocation of the net proceeds, and as 
necessary  thereafter  in  the  event  of  new  developments.  This  information  will  include,  subject  to 
confidentiality considerations, in relation to the projects to which we are subject, additional descriptions 
of select projects funded with the net proceeds and, to the extent possible, in addition to its allocation 
reporting, Fibria will report on the expected environmental impact of the projects. The contents of Fibria’s 
website are not incorporated into this prospectus supplement or the accompanying prospectus. 
 
These reports will be accompanied by: 

(i)  An assertion by management that the net proceeds of this offering were allocated to qualifying 

eligible projects; and 

(ii)   A  report  by  an  external  auditor  in  respect  of  its  examination  of  management’s  assertion 
conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the International Standard on 
Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. 
 

Impact Reporting 
To  the  extent  possible,  in  addition  to  its  allocation  reporting,  Fibria  will  report  on  the  expected 
environmental impact of the projects to which bond proceeds have been allocated. Where relevant, Fibria 
will  report  on  the  following  key  performance  indicators  in  aggregate  (on  a  project  portfolio  basis)  for 
Green Bond projects. Impact reporting will be disclosed publically on the Fibria website, when feasible.  
 
Table 1: Key Performance Indicators by Eligibility Criteria 

Use of proceeds category 
Sustainable Forest Management 

Restoration of native forests and 
conservation of biodiversity  

Key Performance Indicators 
Certified forest area: Hectares of Fibria’s land that has been planted 
or replanted certified by FSC®4 and Cerflor/PEFC   
Greenhouse gas sequestration (tCO2eq/adt) 
Hectares of Fibria’s land that has been restored 
Hectares of owned land area with conserved native vegetation  

Waste management 
Sustainable water management  

Generation of energy from 
renewable sources 

Greenhouse gas sequestration (tCO2eq/adt) 
Reduced and reused waste (t or kg/adt) 
Water withdrawal reduction (m3 or m3/adt) 
Water reused (m3 or m3/adt) 
Total electricity generated from waste biomass at Fibria’s facilities 
(MWh or MWh/adt5) 
Total amount of waste biomass reused for electricity generation 

 
4 FSC® License Code FSC-C100042, FSC-C100704, FSC-C110130 
5 Adt – Air dried tons of pulp   

 

 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

4  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
 
Sustainability Performance of Issuer 
Contribution of use of proceeds to Fibria’s sustainability strategy  
Fibria has a strong overall sustainability strategy supported by a formal sustainability policy. The strength 
of  Fibria’s  strategy  derives  from  (i)  internal  accountability  –  Fibria  has  a  sustainability  committee  that 
reports to the Board on all aspects of sustainability; (ii) a multi-stakeholder process to define material 
issues,  and  continual  engagement  with  relevant  stakeholder  groups  on  these  issues;  (iii)  definition  of 
short-  and  long-term  sustainability  targets;  (iv)  yearly  sustainability  reporting  on  these  targets. 
Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  accountability  through  a  formal  sustainability  committee,  and 
performing a materiality analysis demonstrate the importance given to sustainability and the recognition 
that sustainability is important in day-to-day operations. Furthermore, the commitment to targets and 
yearly reporting is indicative of the priority the company assigns to achieving its sustainability goals.  
 
Table 2: Fibria’s Sustainability targets on issues relevant for use of proceeds 

Long-term commitment 

Targets for 2025 

Optimizing the use of 
natural resources  

Contributing to the 
mitigation of the effects 
of greenhouse gas effect 
Protecting biodiversity 
 

Increasing eco-efficiency 
(including waste 
management) 
 

Reduce by one third the amount of land 
needed for pulp production (Goal: 15 
adt/ha/year) 
Increase the net capture from forests from 
5.5 million tCO2eq, in 2011, to 11.1 million 
tCO2eq, in 2025 
Promote environmental restoration of 
40,000 hectares of Fibria’s own 
areas between 2012 and 2025. 
Reduce by 91% the volume of industrial 
solid waste disposed 
in own or third-party landfills 

Reported performance  
(2015 Sustainability 
Report) 
11.7 adt/ha/year 
 

7.25 million tCO2eq 
sequestered in 2015 

13,885 hectares in 2015 
 

44.7% reduction in 2015 
 

 
The intention to develop in 2016 water goals is also seen positively by Sustainalytics in the context of the 
use of proceeds for Fibria’s Green Bond.  
 
Given  Fibria’s  strong  sustainability  strategy,  and  alignment  of  the  framework  to  support  progress  on 
Fibria’s sustainability goals, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the company is well positioned to issue a 
green bond. 
 
 
 
 

 

 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Well positioned to mitigate key environmental and social risks from eligible projects 
Sustainalytics recognizes that the eligible projects defined in Fibria’s Green Bond Framework are exposed 
to environmental risks specific to the Brazilian context. Eucalyptus plantations are a fast way of generating 
wood fibers, but have been criticized for their negative impact on water resources and biodiversity. An 
additional concern is the use of genetically-modified (GM) seedlings in eucalyptus plantations, given that 
the potential negative impacts of GM trees are not yet fully understood.  While FSC and PEFC are both 
based on rigorous standards and are aligned with international norms, PEFC has faced certain criticisms 
from civil society organizations (see Appendix 2 for details). However, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that 
Fibria is well positioned to mitigate these environmental and social risks, based on:  
 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

Fibria’s environmental impact plan to mitigate the negative impacts of Eucalyptus plantations 
This environmental impact plan includes several activities that alleviate the negative impacts 
associated  with  Eucalyptus  plantations.  Such  activities  include:  (a)  Formation  of  forest 
mosaics that alternate eucalyptus plantations with native vegetation. For each two hectares 
of  planted  forest,  one  hectare  of  natural  area  is  preserved;  (b)  Restoration  processes  and 
improvement  of  conservation  areas;  (c)  Development  of  measures  that  reduce  negative 
impacts associated with forest operations; (d) Monitoring of the impacts of its operations to 
effectively utilise corrective actions.  
 
Fibria’s  transparent  and  conservative  approach  to  the  introduction  of  GM  seedlings 
Fibria maintains a detailed policy on the use of GM eucalyptus. Fibria is involved in research 
and development in this area, but the company has no commercial plantations with GM trees. 
Fibria states that it is committed to holding stakeholder dialogues with the scientific and social 
communities  to  investigate  the  potential  economic,  social,  environmental  and  biosafety 
aspects of GM plantations. Additionally, Fibria has committed that no bond proceeds will be 
allocated to GM eucalyptus related activities.  
 
Double 
forests 
Fibria reports that the majority of its forests have both FSC and PEFC certification, lessening 
the risk of proceeds being directed towards exclusively PEFC-certified forests, which has faced 
criticisms from civil society organizations. See Appendix 2 for Sustainalytics’ assessment of 
the relative strengths and weaknesses of FSC and PEFC certifications. Sustainalytics’ is of the 
opinion that Fibria should keep striving to maintain FSC certification for the majority of its 
forests, to ensure alignment with international best practices. 

a  majority 

certification 

and 

PEFC) 

of 

Fibria 

(FSC 

of 

 
Additionally, Sustainalytics has reviewed Fibria and its operations, and has found no evidence of major 
environmental or social controversies. Given that the company is not involved in major controversies, its 
environmental impact plan to mitigate negative impacts of eucalyptus, its detailed policy on the use of 
GM eucalyptus, and its double certified forests, Sustainalytics believes that Fibria is well positioned to 
mitigate common environmental risks from eligible projects.  
 
 
 

 

 

10 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Sustainalytics’ Opinion on Fibria’s Green Bond Framework 
Importance of sustainable forest management and restoration of forests in Brazil 
Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  Fibria’s  green  bond  framework  is  impactful,  and  contributes  to 
mitigating GHG emissions from the Agriculture, Forestry, and Land Use sector (AFOLU), specifically in the 
Brazilian  context.  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  forest-dependent  companies  like  Fibria  are  key 
contributors to progress Brazil’s ambitions to reduce forest degradation/deforestation and to reduce GHG 
emissions from the AFOLU sector.  
 
Land  use  change  and  forest  degradation/deforestation  is  the  main  source  of GHG  emissions  in  Brazil, 
accounting for nearly 55% of country’s total emissions6. This highlights the need for sustainable forest 
management and restoration of forests in Brazil, and forest-based  companies have an important role to 
play in this regard.  
 
Specifically, with respect to Fibria, managing forests sustainably in line with standards of international 
certifications directly addresses  concerns of  forest  degradation.  Fibria is contributing to  reducing GHG 
emissions from the AFOLU sector through carbon sequestration, as described in the section below.  
 
Contribution of Fibria’s green bond framework in mitigating GHG emissions 
The  contribution  of  sustainable  forest  management  and  restoration  of  forests  to  reducing  forest 
degradation/deforestation and mitigating GHG emissions from the AFOLU sector is supported by the IPCC. 
The IPCC has identified three primary strategies7 to achieve mitigation of GHG emissions in the AFOLU 
sector: 
 

(i)  Reduction/prevention of emissions to the atmosphere by conserving existing carbon pools in soils 
or vegetation that would otherwise be lost or by reducing emissions of methane and other GHG 
(ii)  Sequestration—enhancing the uptake of carbon in terrestrial reservoirs, and thereby removing 

carbon dioxide from the atmosphere 

(iii) Reducing  CO2  emissions  by  substituting  fossil  fuels  or  energy-intensive  products  for  biological 

products 

 
Of these three, sustainable forest management and restoration of forests contributes to reducing forest 
degradation/deforestation  and  GHG  emissions  mitigation  through  increasing  forest  cover  and  carbon 
sequestration.  Specifically,  Fibria’s  green  bond  framework  directs  proceeds  towards  (ii)  carbon 
sequestration  and  (iii)  substitution  of  fossil  fuels  for  biological  products.  For  example,  sustainable 
management of eucalyptus plantations will allow for an increase in carbon sequestration when converting 
pastureland to forest, as will restoring native forest cover from degraded land. 
 
Given  this  alignment  of  the  Fibria  green  bond  framework  with  recognized  GHG  emissions  mitigation 
strategies,  the  strength  of  Fibria’s  sustainability  strategy,  its  set  carbon  sequestration  targets,  and  its 
robust processes to mitigate environmental and social risks, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Fibria’s 

 
6 The SciDev.Net: http://www.scidev.net/global/policy-brief/brazil-climate-change-a-country-profile.html  
7 IPCC assessment report: https://www.ipcc.ch/pdf/assessment-report/ar5/wg3/ipcc_wg3_ar5_chapter11.pdf  

 

 

11 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

green  bond  framework  has  a  clear  impact  on  climate  change  mitigation,  and  is  aligned  with  Brazil’s 
national efforts in this area.  
 
Inclusion of Operational Expenditures (OPEX) 
Sustainalytics recognizes that the use of proceeds will be allocated to OPEX (operational expenditures) 
that is specific to eligible projects. Given the nature of the projects, Sustainalytics believes that OPEX will 
be important to maintain projects and will contribute to sustaining positive environmental impacts. 
 
Alignment with Green Bond Principles 
Sustainalytics has determined that Fibria’s Green Bond Framework aligns with the four pillars of the ICMA 
Green Bond Principles 2016. See Appendix 3 for details.  
 
 
Conclusion 
Through its green bond, Fibria aims to invest in projects that improve its environmental performance. In 
alignment  with  Fibria’s  sustainability  strategy  and  long-term  sustainability  goals,  the  green  bond’s 
proceeds will be allocated to projects focusing on: 1) sustainable forest management, 2) restoration of 
native forests and conservation of biodiversity, 3) waste management, 4) sustainable water management, 
and 5) generation of energy from renewable sources. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that eligible projects 
will have a clear impact on climate change mitigation, and will contribute to achieving long-term goals 
identified in  Fibria’s overall sustainability strategy.    The  company’s approach to selecting projects  and 
managing  green  bonds  proceeds  is  credible,  and  its  reporting  on  the  use  of  proceeds,  with  key 
performance indicators that capture environmental impact, is transparent.  
 
Based on the above points, Sustainalytics considers Fibria’s Green Bond to be robust and credible.   
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

12 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

APPENDICES 
 
Appendix 1: Documents Reviewed 
Sustainalytics reviewed the following documents for the purposes of writing this report 
 

Number 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11  
12 
13 
14 

Document Name 
Fibria’s website – accessed October 2016 
Sustainability Policy  
Risk Management Policy 
Corporate Governance Policy 
Statutes of the Sustainability Committee 
2015 Sustainability Report 
Code of Conduct 
Greenhouse Gas Inventory report and Verification statement 
FSC certification summaries 
PEFC certification summaries 
Summary of the forest management plans 
Fibria’s answers to BM&FBOVESPA’s Corporate Sustainability Index 
Investor Tour 2016 Materials 
Policy on Fibria’s genetically modified eucalyptus (GM Eucalyptus) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

13 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Appendix 2: Sustainalytics’ Analysis of FSC and Cerflor (PEFC) Certifications 
 
FSC  and  PEFC  are  both  based  on  rigorous  standards  and  on  a  multi-stakeholder  structure.  Both 
organizations  are  in  line  with  international  norms  such  as  the  International  Labor  Organization  (ILO) 
conventions, the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), and the Convention on International Trade in 
Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). In addition to compliance with laws in the country 
of certification, both schemes have a set of minimum requirements that companies are required to meet 
to  obtain  and  maintain  certifications.  These  requirements  include  compliance  with  standards  around 
sustainable management of forests, management of environmental impact of operations, preservation of 
biodiversity, management of socio-economic and community relations, and sourcing of sustainable wood 
(chain of custody). Furthermore, both FSC and PEFC require external annual audits to ensure compliance, 
and achieve and maintain certification.  
 
Despite these similarities, PEFC has faced certain criticisms from civil society actors. These are highlighted 
below:  

Type of organization: Since the FSC is an international labeling and certification system, it sets its 
own global standards. The PEFC, in contrast, is not a standard setter, but a mutual recognition 
scheme. The PEFC sets sustainability benchmarks according to international norms, and endorses 
national certification schemes that comply with these benchmarks. A common criticism of this 
model is that it allows for more flexibility in the interpretation of international PEFC benchmarks 
as  per  regional,  cultural,  and  socio-economic  context,  and  results  in  the  endorsement  of  less 
rigorous national certification schemes. However, the process for being endorsed by the PEFC is 
thorough; any national certification system seeking to obtain PEFC endorsement must submit to 
a comprehensive assessment process, including independent evaluation and public consultation. 
This evaluation of compliance with international PEFC benchmarks is carried out by independent, 
accredited certification organizations. 

Indigenous People’s Rights: FSC and PEFC both identify indigenous rights as an important standard 
in  forest  management.  Both  certification  schemes  require  that  forest  management  activities 
consider and do not infringe on indigenous people’s rights, and the activities are carried out using 
frameworks ensuring their free and informed consent.  A criticism of PEFC is that it requires only 
engagement  with  indigenous  people  in  forest  management  decisions,  while  the  FSC  provides 
performance-oriented targets,  and  requires forest managers  operating  on  indigenous  lands  to 
obtain indigenous people’s consent through binding agreements.  

Sourcing  wood  from  non-certified  sources:  Both  FSC  and  the  PEFC  have  established  standards 
around sourcing wood from non-certified and controversial sources. FSC’s standards direct forest 
managers to avoid wood harvested in violation of traditional and civil rights. A criticism of the 
comparable  PEFC  standard  is  that  it  limits  identification  of  controversially  sourced  wood  to 
situations where the local legislation is violated. However, PEFC standards explicitly reference the 
violation of local, national, and international legislation with regards to worker’s and indigenous 
people’s rights as being a controversial source of wood. 

14 

i. 

 
ii. 

 

iii. 

 

 

 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

20 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics is the largest independent provider of sustainability 
research, analysis, and services to investors. We serve over 250 
institutional investors which include some of the world's largest asset 
owners and asset managers. Through over 20 years of experience 
serving the responsible investment (RI) market, we have gained a 
reputation for providing high-quality ESG research solutions and 
excellent client service. 

Sustainalytics is headed by seasoned professionals in the field of 
business, finance, and sustainability, with a wealth of experience in the 
Responsible Investment area. After more than 20 years of local 
experience and expertise in the Responsible Investment (RI) market 
Sustainalytics has developed a comprehensive understanding of trends 
and best practices and a solid process to assist organisations in 
integrating ESG considerations into their policies and strategies. We 
have worked with some of the world’s financial institutions including 
pension plans, investment managers and banks providing customised 
support to help them achieve their RI objectives. Clients include ABN 
AMRO, APG, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank, ING Bank, Lombard 
Odier, Lloyds Bank, Triodos Bank, UBS and over 250 other financial 
institutions and organisations. 

Sustainalytics now has a staff of 250 employees globally, including over 
120 analysts, with operations in Amsterdam, Boston, Bucharest, 
Frankfurt, New York, Paris, London, Singapore, Sydney, Timisoara, and 
Toronto, and representation in Brussels and Washington DC. 

In 2015, Sustainalytics was named the Best 
SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
GlobalCapital. In December 2014, for the 
third year in a row, Sustainalytics was 
named best sustainable and responsible 
investment research firm in the 
Independent Research in Responsible 
Investment (IRRI) Survey, conducted by 
Thomson Reuters and SRI-CONNECT.  

 

 

21 

