 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 

FMO SUSTAINABILITY BOND  

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

May, 2017 

 

 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 

 

Catarina da Silva (Amsterdam) 

Willem van Golstein Brouwers (Amsterdam) 

Senior Advisor, Advisory Services 
catarina.dasilva@sustainalytics.com 
(+31) 20 205 0045 
 
 
 
 

Senior Advisor, Institutional Relations 

willem.vgb@sustainalytics.com  

(+31) 20 205 0041 

 
 

Vikram Puppala  

© Sustainalytics 2015 

CONTENTS 

 

1. 

INTRODUCTION 

2.  OVERVIEW OF THE ISSUER - FMO 

3.  SUSTAINABILITY BOND FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 

3.1  Use of Proceeds 
3.2  Project Selection Process 
3.3  Management of Proceeds 
3.4  Impact Measurement & Reporting 
3.5  Compliance Review 

4.  SUSTAINALYTICS OPINION 

Section 1: Sustainability Performance of the Issuer 
Section 2: Impact of the use of proceeds 
Conclusion 

5.  APPENDICES 
 

 
 
  
 

 

 

 
 

2 

2 

3 
3 
7 
8 
9 
10 

11 
11 
11 
13 

14 

1 

© Sustainalytics 2015 

1. INTRODUCTION 
In  2015,  Sustainalytics  was  retained  by  FMO  to  provide  an  evaluation  of  FMO’s  Sustainability  Bond 
framework in order to ensure alignment with the Green Bond Principles and industry best practices. In 
May  2017,  FMO  engaged  Sustainalytics  to  update  its  2015  Sustainability  Bond  framework  to  include 
additional Use of Proceeds Criteria (refer to section 3).  
As  part  of  this  engagement,  Sustainalytics  held  conversations  with  members  of  FMO’s  treasury  and 
sustainability teams and reviewed relevant public and internal documents to understand FMO’s planned 
use of proceeds, project selection process, management and reporting for its Sustainability Bond.  
This document contains three sections: Overview of the issuer and its ESG Performance; Sustainability 
Bond  Framework  Overview  –  a  summary  of  FMO’s  Sustainability  Bond  framework;  and  Sustainalytics’ 
Opinion – an opinion on the framework. 
 
 
2. OVERVIEW OF THE ISSUER - FMO 
Founded in 1970 by the Dutch government, FMO is the Dutch development bank, and one of the largest 
financial  institutions  focussed  on  development.  With  operations  in  over  85  countries,  FMO  provides 
financing for businesses, projects and financial institutions in developing and emerging markets, with the 
aim of supporting sustainable, private sector development. In general, FMO’s activities focus on having a 
large, long-term impact in the following areas: Financial Institutions, Energy and Agribusiness.  
 
FMO’s vision is that by 2050, nine billion people live well within the limits of our planet. FMO states that 
its strategy is based on the conviction that economic growth that is both inclusive and green will lead to 
a better world. Hence green development and inclusive development are key parts of FMO’s Theory of 
Change.  
 
FMO’s ambition for 2020 is to be the leading impact investor by:  
  Doubling its impact by doubling direct and indirect jobs, and 
  Halving its footprint by doubling avoided Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions1. 
 
The footprint objective is translated into an operational objective to double the proportion of new green 
commitments  to  40%  in  2020.  In  addition,  FMO  aims  to  contribute  to  the  United  Nations  Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) as part of its core business, with a particular focus on SDG 8, 10 and 13, in line 
with  its  ambition  to  be  a  leading  impact  investor.  As  part  of  this  endeavour,  FMO  plans  to  issue 
Sustainability Bonds to fund both its green and inclusive finance commitments.  
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
1 As per FMO’s 2016 Annual Report, these goals will be measured with respect to FMO’s annual new investments in 2018-2020 
versus the 2010-2012 baseline period. 

2 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2015 

FMO’s Sustainability Policy 
FMO has a Sustainability Policy2, defining, amongst others, environmental and social criteria for direct and 
indirect  investments  (see Appendix 1).  All FMO’s  direct  investment clients (including those  in which it 
takes  equity  stake)  are  required  to  comply  with  applicable  national  and  international  E&S  laws  as  a 
minimum standard. In addition, FMO upholds the IFC (International Finance Corporation) Performance 
Standards as applicable for its clients. For FMO’s financial institution (FI) clients and private equity funds 
(PEF) in which  it  invests,  FMO  focuses  on how they address  the environmental and social risk  in their 
portfolios. Depending on the risk category (see Appendix 1), FMO expects the FIs and PEFs to apply certain 
environmental and social standards when financing or investing in their clients. This entails that, FIs and 
PEFs  will  be  required  to  establish  and  maintain  an  E&S  Management  System  to  ensure  that  their 
investments  meet  (or over time  become  compliant with) FMO’s requirements. The level of detail and 
sophistication  of  this  management  system  and  the  monitoring  approach  will  depend  on  the  E&S  risk 
profile of the FI / PEF and the type of financing that they provide. 
 
With regard to ESG oversight, FMO's E&S team has oversight over environmental and social issues, while 
the management board is responsible for setting the sustainability agenda and developing ESG policies. 
FMO's E&S team is comprised of 26 members, three of whom are on the sustainability team coordinating 
all sustainability-related activities, while the other 23 are integrated in the investment and credit review 
teams. 
 
 
3. SUSTAINABILITY BOND FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW  
For  the  purpose  of  issuing  Sustainability  Bonds,  FMO  has  developed  the  following  framework,  which 
addresses  the  four  key  pillars  of  the  Green  Bond  Principles3:  Use  of  proceeds,  Project  evaluation  and 
selection process, Management of proceeds, and Reporting. 
 
2017 FRAMEWORK UPDATE 
This framework has been updated in May 2017, to include “SME Financing” as one of the eligible criteria 
for  use  of  proceeds.  This  newly  added  eligibility  criteria  does  not  apply  retroactively  to  FMO’s 
Sustainability Bonds issued under the previous framework4, but is applicable to future bonds, and hence 
affects only future investments. 
 
3.1  Use of Proceeds 
FMO  plans  to  use  proceeds  of  its  Sustainability  Bonds  to  fund  environmental  (“green”)  and  inclusive 
finance projects to support FMO’s mission. FMO’s definition of green projects focuses on climate-related 
projects,  that should be value  added, and go beyond complying with regulatory  standards in order to 
initiate and/or enable a market shift. FMO defines two sub categories under green finance: climate change 
mitigation and climate change adaptation, and one category under inclusive finance. FMO’s definition of 
green and inclusive finance categories are provided in Table 1.  

 
2 https://www.fmo.nl/policies-and-position-statements 
3 “Green Bond Principles, 2016” dated 16 June 2016 issued by the International Capital Market Association (ICMA) 
4 Dated from April 2015 and available at https://www.fmo.nl/sustainability-bonds 

3 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2015 

 
Table 1 

Category 

Climate Change 
Mitigation 

Climate Change 
Adaptation 

Inclusive  
Finance5 

Definition 
An activity is considered to be mitigating climate change if it contributes to either, reducing 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions into the atmosphere, or sequestering GHG emissions from 
the atmosphere. If the project or activity relates to Energy efficiency, it should achieve at 
least 20% reduction in energy consumptions or GHG emissions. 
An  activity  is  considered  as  climate  change  adaptation  if  the  intention  of  the  activity  or 
project design is to reduce the vulnerability of human or natural systems to the impacts of 
climate change and climate-related risks, by maintaining or increasing adaptive capacity and 
resilience. 

Inclusive  finance  focuses  on  expanding  access  to  affordable  and  responsible  financial 
products and services to the poor and vulnerable populations. This includes microfinance as 
well  as  directly  financing  organizations  that  are  often  unable  to  gain  access  to  financial 
products and services such as small- and medium-sized enterprises.  

 
 
Eligibility Criteria 
 
Climate Change Mitigation Eligibility Criteria 
FMO’s definitions of climate change mitigation, and the eligibility criteria, align with the definitions and 
the types of projects set forth by the Multilateral Development Banks (MDBs) in the “Joint Report on MDB 
Climate Finance 2012”6.  FMO is not formally a member of the MDB group, but closely follows the group’s 
developments through regular communication with it. FMO commits to re-align with MDB’s definitions 
on a rolling basis, as and when FMO partners with MDBs on climate deals, and will re-align at the end of 
each year based on MDB’s annual climate report.  
 
To be eligible for Sustainability Bond proceeds, FMO states that a mitigation activity: 
  Should contribute to the mitigation of climate change by reducing or avoiding GHG, or contribute to 

the protection and/or enhancement of GHG sinks and reservoirs that absorb GHGs;  

  Can be a project or project component;  
  Should be disaggregated from non-mitigation activities through a reasonable level of data granularity. 
For example, a project with a total cost of EUR 100 million may have a EUR 10 million component for 
energy efficiency improvements – only the EUR10 million should be allocated. 

 
A  full  list  of  eligible  climate  mitigation  activities  can  be  found  in  Appendix  2a.  Broadly,  they  can  be 
categorised as: 

  Energy efficiency; 
  Renewable Energy; 
  Transport; 
  Agriculture, forestry and land use; 

 
5 http://www.unpri.org/areas-of-work/implementation-support/piif/what-is-inclusive-finance/ 
6 http://www.ebrd.com/downloads/sector/sei/climate-finance-2012.pdf 

4 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2015 

  Waste and wastewater; 
  Non-energy GHG reductions; and  
  Cross-sector activities. 

 
 
Climate Change Adaptation Eligibility Criteria 
FMO defines this category along the lines of the Joint Report on MDB Climate Finance and states that to 
be eligible for Sustainability Bond proceeds an adaptation-related activity needs to demonstrate that it 
potentially contributes to reducing the vulnerability to climate change identified in the project area, and 
that the following should be provided to substantiate this: 

  A description of the context of climate vulnerability of the project based on an investigation of 

the vulnerabilities to climate change of the project’s geographical area; 

  An explicit statement of intent to address climate vulnerability as part of the project. This should 
be supported by an analysis of the project’s planned activities to decipher a positive list of actions 
that  can  contribute  to  reducing  vulnerability,  or  strengthening  the  resilience  of  communities, 
goods, or ecosystems to climate change; 

  Articulating  a  clear  and  direct  link  between  the  climate  vulnerability  context  and  the  specific 

project activities; and 

  Evidences that the project does not have negative impacts in terms of climate change mitigation 

(e.g., enhancing carbon intensive infrastructures). 

A few examples of climate change adaptation activities can be found in Appendix 2b. 
 
 
Inclusive Finance Eligibility Criteria 
FMO  is  committed  to  provide  funds  generated  through  the  issuance  of  its  Sustainability  Bonds  to 
microfinance  institutions  (MFIs)  as  well  as  directly  to  small-  and  medium-sized  enterprises  (SMEs)  in 
developing and emerging markets. 
  
Finance of microfinance institutions (MFIs) 
FMO provides funds to microfinance institutions (MFIs) to provide loans to micro-enterprises. FMO plans 
to use the Sustainability Bonds  proceeds  to fund such MFIs. FMO undertakes  a  detailed due  diligence 
exercise,  including an assessment  of ESG related risks,  before  selecting a MFI to receive  funding from 
FMO. Projects are classified as microfinance if they meet the following criteria: 

a)  The end-client should meet two of three criteria to be eligible for the Sustainability Bond (see 
table 2): 1) number of employees <10; 2) turnover <USD 100,000; 3) total assets <USD 100,000; 
or  

b)  If data mentioned in point ‘a’ is not available, then the loan size should be < USD 10,000. 

 
FMO  carries  out  an  annual  review  of  each  MFI  and  their  lending  to  evaluate  if  MFIs  are  meeting  the 
conditions, including the above condition, set by FMO. 
 
 
 
 

5 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2015 

Financing small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) 
FMO  commits  to  finance  SMEs  in  developing  and  emerging  markets,  typically  through  financial 
intermediaries,  such  as  SME  (focused)  Banks,  non-bank  financial  institutions  and  corporates7.  FMO  is 
committed8,9 to invest in some of the poorest countries in the world. To be eligible for the use of proceeds, 
financial institutions should: 

 

specifically target one or more of the following populations: females; rural populations who are 
focusing  on  agricultural  production  and  agricultural  value  chains;  economically  excluded 
individuals; and low-income populations who earn less than USD 8 per day; and  

  be identified as an SME, as defined by the International Finance Corporation (IFC)10, as outlined in 

Table 2.  

 
Table 2. IFC’s definition for Micro-, Small- and Medium-size Enterprises 
Small-size enterprise 

Micro-size enterprise 

Medium-size enterprise 

Indicator/Size of 
enterprise 
Number of employees  < 10 
Total assets 

< USD 100,000 

Annual sales 

< USD 100,000 

10 < 50  
USD 100,000 < USD 3 
million 
USD 100,000 < USD 3 
million 

50 – 300 
USD 3 million < USD 15 
million 
USD 3 million < USD 15 
million 

 
FMO undertakes a detailed due diligence exercise, similar to that is being applied in case of selecting MFIs. 
This  includes  an  assessment  of  ESG  related  risks,  before  providing  finance  to  SMEs  or  financial 
intermediaries.  An  SME  average  loan  size  should  be between  USD  10,000 or  more,  but  less  than  USD 
1,000,000 (10,000 < USD < 1,000,000). 

 
 

Exclusionary Criteria 
In addition to eligibility criteria, FMO specifies the following exclusionary criteria with regard to use of 
proceeds. FMO will not finance any business or trade involved in: 
1.  Forced labour11 or child labour12. 
2.  Activities  or  materials  deemed  illegal  under  host  country  laws  or  regulations  or  international 

conventions and agreements, or subject to international phase-outs or bans, such as: 

 
7 FMO Investment Criteria, February 2017 
8 https://www.fmo.nl/l/library/download/urn:uuid:638188d0-5def-49f4-bf5a-7db9c94ddb52/2016+fmo+annual+report.pdf 
9 https://www.fmo.nl/l/library/download/urn:uuid:9978eafe-864f-4b3a-bed1-
5e0563df0c85/fmo+sustainability+policy.pdf?format=save_to_disk&ext=.pdf 
10http://www.ifc.org/wps/wcm/connect/635f64804efbe2b18ef5cf3eac88a2f8/IFC_Factsheet_SME_Loan+Size+Proxy_Brief.pdf
%20?MOD=AJPERES 
11 Forced labour means all work or service, not voluntarily performed, that is extracted from an individual under threat of force 
of penalty as defined by ILO conventions. 
12 Persons may only be employed if’ they are at least 14 years old, as defined in the ILO Fundamental Human Rights 
Conventions (Minimum Age Convention C138, Art. 2), unless local legislation specifies compulsory school attendance or the 
minimum age for working. In such cases the higher age shall apply. 
 

6 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2015 

a)  Ozone depleting substances, PCB’s (Polychlorinated Biphenyls) and other specific, hazardous 

pharmaceuticals, pesticides/herbicides or chemicals; 

b)  Wildlife or products regulated under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered 

Species or Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES); or 

c)  Unsustainable  fishing  methods  (e.g.,  blast  fishing  and  drift  net  fishing  in  the  marine 

environment using nets in excess of 2.5 km in length). 

3.  Cross-border trade in waste and waste products, unless compliant with the Basel Convention and the 

underlying regulations. 

4.  Destruction13 of High Conservation Value areas14. 
5.  Radioactive materials15 and unbounded asbestos fibres. 
6.  Pornography and/or prostitution. 
7.  Racist and/or anti-democratic media. 
8.  The following products forming a substantial part of a project’s primary financed business activities16: 

a)  Alcoholic Beverages (except beer and wine); 
b)  Tobacco; 
c)  Weapons and munitions; 
d)  Gambling, casinos and equivalent enterprises; or 
e)  Nuclear energy. 

 
 
Eligible projects  
Projects eligible to be financed with the proceeds of FMO’s Sustainability Bonds include projects that meet 
the eligibility criteria described above and are: 
  Projects committed after the issuance of the Sustainability Bond; or 
  Projects committed before the issuance of the Sustainability Bond but funded (disbursed) after the 

issuance of the Sustainability Bond; or 

  Projects  funded  (disbursed)  within  12  months  before  the  issuance  of  the  Sustainability  Bond. 

 
 

3.2  Project Selection Process 
FMO  follows  a  two-stage  process  for  the  selection  of  green  and  inclusive  finance  projects  for  the 
Sustainability Bond portfolio: 
 
Stage 1- Approve projects under green or inclusive finance category; 
Stage 2- Allocate bond funds to approved projects. 
 
 
13 Destruction means the (I) elimination or severe diminution of the integrity of an area caused by a major, long-term change in 
land or water use or (2) modification of a habitat in such a way that the area’s ability to maintain its role is lost. 
14 High Conservation Value (HCV) areas are defined as natural habitats where these values are considered to be of outstanding 
significance or critical importance 
15 This does not apply to the purchase of medical equipment, quality control (measurement) equipment or any other 
equipment where the radioactive source is understood to be trivial and/or adequately shielded. 
16 For companies, ‘substantial’ means more than 10% of their consolidated balance sheets or earnings. For financial institutions 
and investment funds, ‘substantial” means more than 10% of their underlying portfolio volumes. 

7 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2015 

Stage 1: The following steps detail the approval process for green projects 

1)  The  deal  team  prepares  a  proposal  substantiating  why  a  project  qualifies  as  green  (consults  an 

external advisor if needed), submits the deal to sustainability team for approval;  

2)  The sustainability team, which is a part of the strategy department, receives proposals and assesses 
the  transaction  against  the  green  project  definition  and  criteria  as  per  FMO’s  Green  Definitions 
document. If the project activity automatically meet the eligibility criteria, then the sustainability 
team approves this and notifies the deal team. For project activities that do not automatically meet 
the  eligibility  criteria,  the  sustainability  team  can  consult  the  Green  Business  Knowledge  Street 
(GBKS) that consists of environmental specialists. 

3)  Based  on  the  outcome  of  the  GBKS,  the  sustainability  team  confirms  whether  the  transaction 

qualifies as green and what percentage of the investment qualifies as a green investment; 

4)  The transaction is then recorded into an internal system with all the relevant details pertaining to 

the project and the decision on the green investment amount and percentage. 

 
The GBKS consists of members from different departments who have expertise in sustainability, and is 
chaired by the manager of the sustainability department. If required, the green team may engage external 
experts to make a decision on green credentials of complex deals. The mandate of the GBKS is to advise 
deal teams and the sustainability team, and to provide final approval whether a transaction is green and 
the percentage of green for complex green transactions and learn from partner (IFC, EBRD, ADB, AfDB, 
EIB, IDB, and WB) definitions and calculations. 
 
The following steps detail the approval process for inclusive finance projects (micro finance): 

1)  The  deal  team  checks  whether  the  project  meets  the  inclusive  finance  eligibility  criteria  as 

described in paragraph 3.1; 

2)  When the project meets the inclusive finance criteria, it is then labelled as micro-finance\SME in 

an internal system (ACBS) with all the relevant details pertaining to the project. 

 
Stage 2: Allocate bond funds to approved projects.  
FMO  reviews  semi-annually,  all  the  approved  and  recorded  projects  under  green  or  inclusive  finance 
category, and selects only those projects for the bond proceeds allocation, that meet the eligibility criteria 
defined in section 3.1. above. The Sustainability Bond funds are then allocated to these eligible projects 
and reported. 
 
The steps in Appendix 3 highlight the process to select green and inclusive finance projects. 
 
 
3.3  Management of Proceeds 
The net proceeds of the Sustainable Bond issue are held within FMO’s Treasury in a special sub-portfolio 
that is linked to FMO’s lending operations in the fields of green finance and inclusive finance. As long as 
the  Sustainability  Bond  is  outstanding,  the  balance  of  the  sub-portfolio  will  be  reduced  by  amounts 
matching the disbursements to the eligible projects. Pending such disbursement, the net proceeds of the 
Sustainability Bond will be held  in FMO’s liquidity portfolio and may temporarily  be used for different 

 
 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2015 

purposes in case of liquidity stress situations. FMO expects the bond proceeds to be fully allocated within 
two years from the issue date. 
 
 
3.4  Impact Measurement & Reporting 
 
Impact Measurement 
Within FMO, green transactions can either be direct (i.e. FMO finances a project or company directly), or 
indirect (i.e. FMO participates in a private equity fund targeting green investments, or provides a so-called 
green  credit  line  to  a  bank  or  other  financial  intermediary).  For  all  direct  green  investments,  FMO 
calculates, accounts and reports the greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions that these investments 
are estimated to realize, by calculating the difference between the emissions caused by the project and 
the emissions ‘without the project’ or ‘most likely alternative’ scenario. The methodology FMO applies 
aligns  with  guidance  provided  by  the  following  broadly  accepted  bodies  and  initiatives:  (i)  the  GHG 
Protocol (accounting basics on scope 1,2,3 emissions and direct and indirect emission reductions), (ii) the 
UNFCCC, (iii) the IFI Framework on the Accounting of GHG Reductions. FMO accepts the following source 
data for its calculations, in order of preference: 

  First preference: project-specific data from the Validation Report (or, if not yet available, from the 
most  recent Project Design Document), issued as part of the  project  registration under the Clean 
Development Mechanism (CDM).  

  Second preference: project-specific validated data from the Gold Standard or voluntary carbon credit 

scheme (VCS), or another voluntary carbon scheme or standard with an equal assurance level. 

  Third  preference:  for  electricity  producing  projects,  compare  the  project’s  estimated  power 
production  and  the  project’s  estimated  GHG  emission  with  the  emission  from  the  same  power 
production, using a grid emission factor endorsed by the UNFCCC or the IFI Harmonization Initiative 
on GHG Accounting, or published by the IEA. For other projects, use dedicated methodologies or 
independent consultant studies. 

 
FMO calculates estimated annual GHG emission reduction based on the sum of the ex-ante estimate of 
each  project  financed  through  direct  green  investments,  in  proportion  to  the  Sustainability  Bond 
allocation. For example, for a EUR 100 million project with project savings of 100,000 tons of CO2eq per 
year, if, total FMO financing is EUR 20 million and total Sustainability Bond allocation is EUR 10 million 
(i.e., 10% of total project size), then total attribution to the Sustainability bond would be 10,000 tons of 
CO2eq per year (i.e., 10% of total GHG savings). 
 
FMO has developed metrics that measure and capture positive outcomes from inclusive finance funding, 
namely the number of (in)direct jobs supported with its investments. 
 
Reporting 
FMO provides investors with a semi-annual newsletter highlighting the following: 

  The progress on allocation of use of proceeds; 
  Details about each project such as country of location, sector, project description and amount 
allocated from the bond including a hyperlink to a detailed project description on FMO's website;  

9 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2015 

  A few case studies; 
  An estimation of annual GHG emission reduction from direct green investments 
  An estimation of the number of (in)direct jobs supported with our investments 

 
In  addition,  FMO  has moved  towards  a  fully  integrated  annual  report  with  financial  and  non-financial 
information including GHG emissions. FMO  has the integrated report audited by its auditors providing 
(limited) assurance. FMO has published seven Sustainability Bond newsletters to date on its website17. 
Additionally, the website provides detailed project information such as client info, the funding objective, 
and the rationale for funding.  
 
 
3.5  Compliance Review 
On the first anniversary of each Sustainability Bond issuance, FMO will engage Sustainalytics to review 
projects funded by the Sustainability Bond in order to assess the compliance of projects with the use of 
proceeds criteria of the bond. Sustainalytics will review a broad sample of projects from the total allocated 
projects  in  order  to  determine  whether  or  not  they  meet  the  use  of  proceeds  criteria  defined  in  the 
framework. Sustainalytics will provide a report of the evaluation, which FMO may plan to disclose publicly. 
In an unlikely event that a project did not meet the use of proceed criteria, FMO would reallocate the 
bond funds to a different project that is aligned with the criteria. 

 

 
17 https://www.fmo.nl/news?search=&newsType=snippet&publicationYear=&filterLabel%5B%5D=sustainability_bonds 

10 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2015 

4. SUSTAINALYTICS OPINION 
 
Section 1: Sustainability Performance of the Issuer  
 
Amongst the industry leaders in ESG performance  
Of the companies that Sustainalytics tracks globally in the diversified financials industry, FMO has been 
assessed as an industry leader compared to its industry peers. As of May 2017, the company’s total ESG 
score places FMO in the top 10 performing companies in the Banks industry18.  In comparison to its peers, 
the company ranks at the top of its industry based on its good performance in environmental, social, and 
governance  issues.  Given  its  mission,  vision  and  programmes  aimed  at  creating  positive  sustainability 
outcomes, and its industry leading ESG performance among its peers, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that 
FMO is well positioned to issue Sustainability Bonds. 
 
Due diligence efforts to evaluate environmental and social risks associated with the projects  
FMO  performs  thorough  social  and  environmental  assessments  prior  to  providing  (direct  or  indirect) 
financing. All projects are required to comply with strong social and environmental criteria, in alignment 
with the strict IFC Environmental and Social Performance Standards. These standards are recognized as 
best practice internationally, and Sustainalytics considers this due diligence level of particular importance 
given FMO’s involvement in developing and emerging markets, where the environmental and social risks 
associated with the projects are potentially greater.  
In recent years, FMO has seen two of the projects financed by the bank criticized due to social impacts on 
indigenous people. One refers to the Agua Zarca project in Honduras, and the other to the Barro Blanco 
hydro dam in Panama. According to information on FMO’s website on these incidents, for Agua Zarca 
project, FMO is in discussion with involved stakeholder to realize a responsible exit19, and for the Barro 
Blanco project issues are being addressed following an agreement between the government of Panama 
and the indigenous groups on cultural, social, economic and environmental aspects related to the hydro 
project20. Sustainalytics recognizes that due to its focus on developing and emerging economies, FMO is 
particularly  exposed  to  social  and  environmental  risks  associated  with  the  projects.  However, 
Sustainalytics  considers  that  FMO’s  policies  and  due  diligence  efforts,  in  line  with  international  best 
practices,  strengthen  the  bank’s  ability  to  address  and  mitigate  social  and  environmental  risks  in  its 
portfolio. 
 
Section 2: Impact of the use of proceeds  
 
Strong internal expertise ensuring that proceeds are allocated to high-quality assets 
FMO has developed strong internal expertise in the identification, evaluation and assessment of green 
and socially inclusive projects and in the measurement of the impacts of these projects. When assessing 
a project, FMO takes an in-depth and critical look at the project and follows a rigorous approval process, 
as highlighted in section 3.2 above. This practice will enable FMO to allocate Sustainability Bond funds to 

 
18 Sustainalytics analyses the ESG performance of 319 companies as part of the Banks industry.  
19 https://www.fmo.nl/agua-zarca 
20 https://www.fmo.nl/barro-blanco 

11 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2015 

high-quality and impactful assets. Furthermore, in the area of impact measurement, FMO has developed 
internal capability to quantify GHG emission reductions, which will enable it to measure and track actual 
positive impacts achieved by the bond. FMO's expertise in areas of project selection and measurement 
make it highly likely that assets selected for the Sustainability Bond will have a strong impact in the areas 
of climate change mitigation, climate change adaptation and inclusive finance. 
 
Providing a positive contribution to climate change mitigation and adaptation 
FMO defines two categories for the use of Sustainability Bond proceeds – Green and Inclusive Finance. 
Eligibility criteria for the Green category are based on the definitions and the types of projects set forth 
by the Multilateral Development Banks (MDBs) in the “Joint Report on MDB Climate Finance 2012.”21 The 
MDBs’ Joint Report further breaks down the Green category into Climate Change Mitigation and Climate 
Change Adaptation. The MDBs’ eligibility criteria for climate change mitigation are specific and detailed, 
and by adopting these criteria FMO is providing sufficient clarity to investors regarding the intended use 
of bond proceeds. With regard to climate change adaptation, the eligibility criteria in the Joint Report 
include any project or activity that has a clear link to addressing climate change vulnerability. It should be 
noted, however, that some climate change adaptation activities, such as enhancing the resilience of oil 
and  gas  infrastructure  or  adapting  mining  practices  to  climate  change,  have  negative  sustainability 
impacts in the long run. Excluding such projects from a Sustainability Bond that aims to provide positive 
impact  is  therefore  necessary.  Rightly,  FMO  takes  this  extra  step  and  specifies  that  it  will  only  fund 
adaptation projects that do not have any negative sustainability impacts. This will provide assurance to 
investors that only positive impact activities are funded with the Sustainability Bond. 
       
Advancing inclusive finance in developing and emerging economies 
With regard to Inclusive Finance, FMO is committed to provide loans to MFIs and SMEs.  Through those 
loans,  it  specifically  targets  developing  and  emerging  economies.  In  those  countries,  it  focuses  on 
populations  who  are  at  the  Base  of  the  Pyramid,  and  who  typically  would  benefit  from  financing 
programmes specifically tailored to their needs and economic possibilities. FMO is diligent in its selection 
of  SMEs  or  financial  intermediaries  that  support  lending  to  enterprises.  While  lending  to  SMEs  in 
developing  countries  generally  has  a  positive  impact  through  its  contribution  to  local  economic 
opportunity  and  development,  it  also  exposes  FMO  to  the  possibility  of  financing  activities  that  may 
breach international norms, such as the use of child labour. Carrying out due diligence when selecting 
MFIs  and  SMEs,  and  undertaking  an  annual  review  of  MFIs  to  ensure  that  their  lending  practices  are 
compliant  with  FMO’s  policies  and  exclusionary  criteria  mentioned  in  section  3.1,  will  help  FMO  to 
mitigate this risk. 
 
Contributing to FMO’s sustainability ambition and to the advancement of the SDGs 
Sustainalytics  considers  that  FMO’s  Sustainability  Bonds  will  positively  contribute  to  FMO’s  vision  and 
ambition for 2020, as outlined in section 2, as well as to the advancement of the SDG agenda. Specifically, 
the use of proceeds will be impactful for, for instance, the following SDGs:  

  Goal 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all;  
  SDG  8:  Promote  sustained,  inclusive  and  sustainable  economic  growth,  full  and  productive 

employment and decent work for all;  

 

21 http://www.ebrd.com/downloads/sector/sei/climate-finance-2012.pdf 

12 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2015 

  Goal 10: Reduce inequality within and among countries; 
  SDG 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts.  

 
Excellent reporting leading best practices 
FMO’s Sustainability Bond reporting is very detailed and includes a description of each project along with 
the  information  regarding  location,  amounts  allocated  and  relative  ESG  risk  level.  FMO  publishes  two 
Sustainability Bond newsletters per year, providing detailed and insightful project allocation information. 
Sustainalytics considers this to be amongst leading reporting practices. 
 
Alignment with the Green Bond Principles 
Sustainalytics has determined that FMO’s Sustainability Bond Framework aligns with the four pillars of 
ICMA’s Green Bond Principles, 2016.  An overview of these four pillars is provided in Appendix 5: Green 
Bond Programme External Review Form.  
 
 
Conclusion  
Sustainalytics considers that FMO is well positioned to issue Sustainability Bonds. The proceeds will be 
directed  towards  climate  change  mitigation  and  adaptation  activities,  and  towards  inclusive  finance, 
contributing to FMO’s vision, sustainability targets and to advancing the Sustainable Development Goals. 
FMO has outlined a clear decision-making process to evaluate and select eligible projects to be financed 
by Sustainability Bonds’ proceeds. This evaluation is supported by a thorough social and environmental 
assessments prior to providing (direct or indirect) financing to all its projects. Sustainalytics considers this 
due  diligence  level  of  particular  importance  given  FMO’s  involvement  in  developing  and  emerging 
markets, where the environmental and social risks associated with the projects are potentially greater. 
FMO’s  reporting  is  very  detailed  and  transparent,  which  will  provide  investors  clarity  about  the  bond 
investments. In addition, FMO has engaged Sustainalytics to provide an annual compliance review on each 
bond issued under the framework, which will provide additional assurance that the bond is fully compliant 
with eligibility criteria. 
 
Sustainalytics considers that FMO’s Sustainability Bond framework follows the guidance provided by the 
Green Bond Principles 2016 and is in alignment with the Principles’ four components: the use of proceeds, 
project evaluation and selection process, management of proceeds and reporting.  
 
Based on the above points, Sustainalytics considers FMO’s Sustainability Bond to be robust, credible and 
transparent. 
 

 

 
 

13 

© Sustainalytics 2015 

5. APPENDICES 
 
APPENDIX  1:    FMO  Environmental  and  Social  approach  –  integrated  in  FMO’s 
Sustainability Policy 
 
Direct investments 
Risk Categorization   
All new and existing clients for FMO are subject to a Risk Categorization of their (potential) Environmental 
and Social impacts. There are four risk categories A, B+, B and C: 
 
A = high risk:  Projects / clients with potential significant adverse social or environmental impacts which 
are diverse, irreversible or unprecedented. 
B+ = medium high risk:  Clients with potential adverse social or environmental impacts that are generally 
beyond  the  site  boundaries,  largely  reversible  and  can  be  addressed  through  relevant  mitigation 
measures.  
B = medium risk:  Clients with potential limited adverse social or environmental impacts that are few in 
number, generally site-specific, largely reversible and readily addressed through mitigation measures.  
C = low risk:  Projects with minimal or no adverse social or environmental Impacts. 
 
The categorization of clients into the A, B+, B, or C category is largely based on an assessment against the 
applicable  IFC  Environmental  and  Social  Performance  Standards.  At  the  same  time,  FMO  cooperates 
closely with the European Development Finance Institutions (EDFI’s) with the purpose to harmonize its 
definitions and requirements.  
 
Applicable requirements   
For direct investment clients in category A and B+, an assessment of the E&S practices is required as part 
of FMO’s due diligence. All FMO’s higher risk clients are required to implement an Environmental and 
Social Management System (ESMS). This ESMS is customized for each type of client. Below table provides 
an overview of the minimum requirements per category of company.     

 

Direct Investments 

Risk / impact 
IFC Performance 
Standards (PS) 

Requirements 

A 

High 

Often project finance 
with PS 1-4 triggered 
as well as high risk 
aspects (PS 5-8) 

 

- IFC Performance 
Standards  
- ESAP (usually) 

B+ 

Medium / high 

Often corporate 
finance with PS 1-4 
triggered, and  
potentially high risk 
aspects (PS 5-8)  
 
-IFC Performance 
standards  
-ESAP (if necessary) 
 

B 

Medium 

Corporate in medium 
risk sector PS 1-3 

C 

Low 

Corporate 
in low risk 
sector 

-IFC Performance 
Standards  
-ESAP (on request) 

-National 
Law  
-No ESAP  
 

 
 

14 

© Sustainalytics 2015 

 
Methodology:  Environmental and Social Action Plans 
Based on the outcomes of the assessment carried out, an Environmental and Social Action Plan (ESAP) 
will  be  agreed  upon  as  necessary,  with  clear  and  practical milestones  to  be  achieved  within  a  certain 
period of time. The ESAP would normally allow clients a three-year period at the maximum to reach full 
compliance with the requirements. For clients in category B and C, no in-depth assessment is required. 
However, on a voluntary basis FMO tries to identify potential value creation that can be achieved with 
these clients. 
 
The ESAP is, in cooperation with the client, made “SMART”, i.e. Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Realistic 
and Time-Bound, and included in the loan documentation. Non-compliance with key milestones of the 
ESAP constitutes an event of default under the loan documentation. For FMO’s direct equity transactions, 
the  ESAP  shall  be  firmly  agreed  and  the  E&S  principles  to  be  applied  by  the  company  shall  be  firmly 
constituted  in  the  Shareholders  Agreement.  The  ESAP  shall  be  under  implementation  before 
disbursement of FMO’s funds. 
 
Effective implementation of the ESAP adds value to the client, it mitigates E&S risks and it contributes to 
E&S development impact that FMO achieves through its financing.  
 
Indirect Investments 
For financial institution (FI) clients and private equity funds (PEF) in which FMO invests, it focuses on how 
they address the environmental and social risk in their portfolios. Depending on the risk category, FMO 
expects the FIs and PEFs to apply certain environmental and social standards when financing or investing 
in  their  clients.  This  entails  that,  FIs  and  PEFs  will  be  required  to  establish  and  maintain  an  E&S 
Management System to ensure that their investments meet (or over time become compliant with) FMO’s 
requirements. The level of detail and sophistication of this management system and of the monitoring 
approach will depend on the E&S risk profile of the FI / PEF and the type of financing that they provide.  
In  the  table  below,  the  risk  categorisation  for  FIs  and  PEFs  is  presented,  together  with  the  applicable 
requirements. 
 

 
 

15 

© Sustainalytics 2015 

Indirect 

Investments: 

Financial 

Institutions 

Risk / 
impact 

BASIC CRITERIA 

FI-A 

High 

FI-B 

Medium 

FI-C 

Low 

High E&S risk sector exposure is 
> 20% 
 

High E&S risk sector exposure is 
< 20% 
 

Retail or micro 
businesses exposure is > 
80% 
 

Upgrade category if one of the criteria below is applicable: 

  Exposure to IFC PS-triggered transactions is > 10% of total loan portfolio or > USD 

300mln  
Specific E&S challenges increase the FI-Clients E&S risk profile 

 

UP- OR 
DOWNGRADE 
CRITERIA 

 
 
Downgrade category if one of the criteria below is applicable:  

Short-term (< 12 months) financing is > 75% 

 
  Average loan size or financial engagement of the FI-Client is < EUR 25.000 

 

 

Footnotes: 
1.  Portfolio: Percentages refer to total loan portfolio volume 
2.  High E&S Risk Sector: determined based on EDFI High E&S Risk Sector List 
3. 

IFC PS-triggered transactions: Project finance and corporate loans related to project finance (total project 
size USD ≥ 10m / ≥36 months tenor) 

4.  E&S challenges: country specific E&S issues (Indigenous people / Land rights / Water / Deforestation), 

negative NGO / Media attention 

Indirect 

Investments: 

Financial 

Institutions 

BASIC 
REQUIREMENTS 

CATEGORY-
BASED 
REQUIREMENTS 

 

 
 

FI-A 

FI-B 

FI-C 

-  Apply Exclusion List to FI-Client’s loan and investment portfolio (Annex 3) 
-  Compliance with IFC PS 2 – Labour and Working Conditions (material issues) 
-  Compliance of FI-Client and its clients (loan portfolio) with local E&S regulation 
-  Annual portfolio sector overview / composition  
Scope 
-  ESMS covering at minimum 

Scope 
-  ESMS covering IFC PS-

-  CPP Requirements 

IFC PS-triggered 
transactions, high E&S risk 
sectors and country-specific 
sensitive issues 

Application 
- 

- 

IFC PS framework is applied 
to IFC PS-triggered 
transactions 
Transactions with country-
specific sensitive issues will 

- 

triggered transactions and 
country-specific sensitive 
issues 

Application 
- 

IFC PS framework is applied 
to IFC PS-triggered 
transactions 
Transactions with country-
specific sensitive issues will 
be addressed through IFC 

16 

© Sustainalytics 2015 

PS or an approach tailor-
made to address risks in 
the local context 

Additional  
-  E&S tracking Management 

Information System 

-  Annual E&S Monitoring 

Report 

be addressed through IFC 
PS or an approach tailor-
made to address risks in 
the local context 
Clients in the high E&S risk 
sectors will adhere to local 
E&S regulation 

- 

Additional  
-  E&S tracking Management 

Information System 

-  Annual E&S Monitoring 

Report  

Indirect 

Investments: 
Private Equity 

Funds 

Risk / impact 
PEF Criteria for 
Categorization 

Fund 
Requirements 

PEF-A 

High 

PEF-B 

Medium 

>15% Investee companies in 
high risk sectors  

<15% Investee companies in 
high risk sectors 

-Apply exclusion list 
- Commit to E&S Investment 
Code before first investment 
- ESMS based on IFC PS for high 
risk clients 
-ESMS ready before first 
investment 

- Apply exclusion list 
- Commit to E&S Investment 
Code before first investment 
- ESMS based on IFC PS for high 
risk clients 
-ESMS ready before first 
investment 

Investee 
Company 
Requirements 

-  National Law and ILO core 

- 

conventions. 

 National Law and ILO core 
conventions. 

-  Work to ultimately comply 

-  Work to ultimately comply 

with IFC PS (for high risk 
investee companies only) 
Policy for continuous 
improvement 

- 

with IFC PS (for high risk 
investee companies only) 
Policy for continuous 
improvement  

- 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

PEF-C 

Low 

In principle 
Investments in low 
risk sectors only 
- Apply exclusion list 
- Commit to E&S 
Investment Code 
before first 
investment 
- ESMS based on IFC 
PS for high risk clients 
-ESMS ready before 
first investment 
-  National Law and 

ILO core 
conventions. 

-  Work to 

ultimately comply 
with IFC PS (for 
high risk investee 
companies only) 
Policy for 
continuous 
improvement  

- 

17 

© Sustainalytics 2015 

Methodology: Environmental and Social Action Plans 
For those FIs where an ESMS is required, an action plan can be agreed upon with timelines for the 
various elements (policy, training, procedures and full implementation). The Environmental and Social 
Action Plan (ESAP) is to be agreed upon as necessary, with clear and practical milestones to be achieved 
within a certain period of time. 
  
 

 

 
 

18 

© Sustainalytics 2015 

APPENDIX 2: Eligible activities under climate change mitigation and adaptation 
(Source MDB)  
 
2a: Eligible activities under climate change mitigation 
 
Energy efficiency 
 

Commercial and 
residential buildings 

Public services 

 
 

Energy-efficiency improvement in lighting, appliances and equipment 
Substitution of existing heating/cooling systems for buildings by cogeneration 
plants that generate electricity in addition to providing heating/cooling 

  Retrofit of existing buildings: Architectural or building changes that enable 

reducing energy consumption 

  Waste heat recovery improvements 
 

Energy-efficiency improvement in utilities and public services through the 
installation of more efficient lighting or equipment 

  Rehabilitation of district heating systems 
  Utility heat loss reduction and/or increased waste heat recovery 
 

Improvement in utility scale energy efficiency through efficient energy use, and 
loss reduction. 

Agriculture 

  Reduction in energy use in traction (e.g. efficient tillage), irrigation, and other 

Industry 

 

Transmission and 
distribution systems 

Power plants 

Construction of new 
buildings 

 
 
 
 

 
 

agriculture processes 
Industrial energy-efficiency improvements through the installation of more 
efficient equipment, changes in processes, reduction of heat losses and/or 
increased waste heat recovery 
Installation of cogeneration plants 

 
  More efficient facility replacement of an older facility (old facility retired) 
  Retrofit of transmission lines or substations to reduce energy use and/or 

technical losses, excluding capacity expansion 

  Retrofit of distribution systems to reduce energy use and/or technical losses, 

 

excluding capacity expansion 
Improving existing systems to facilitate the integration of renewable energy 
sources into the grid 

  Renewable energy power plant retrofits 
 
 

Energy-efficiency improvement in existing thermal power plant 
Thermal power plant retrofit to fuel switch from a more GHG-intensive fuel to a 
different, less GHG-intensive fuel type 

  Waste heat recovery improvements 
  Use of highly efficient architectural designs or building techniques that enable 

reducing energy consumption for heating and air conditioning, exceeding 
available standards and complying with high energy efficiency certification or 
rating schemes 

19 

© Sustainalytics 2015 

Renewable Energy 
 

Electricity generation 

Transmission systems, 
greenfield 

Heat production or 
greenfield 

 
 
Transport 
 

Vehicle energy efficiency 
fleet retrofit 
Urban transport modal 
change 
Urban development 

 

 

lnter-urban transport 
and freight transport 

Solar power (concentrated solar power, photovoltaic power) 

  Wind power 
  Geothermal power, if net emission can be demonstrated 
 
  Biomass or biogas power that does not decrease biomass and soil carbon pools 
  Ocean power (wave, tidal, ocean currents, salt gradient, etc.) 
  Hydropower plants only if net emission reduction can be demonstrated 
  New transmission systems (lines, substations) or new systems (e.g., new 

information and communication technology, storage facility, etc.) to facilitate 
the integration of renewable energy sources into the grid 
Solar water heating and other thermal applications of solar power in all sectors 
Thermal applications of geothermal power in all sectors 
Thermal applications of sustainably-produced bioenergy in all sectors, including 

 
 
 

 

Existing vehicles, rail or boat fleet retrofit or replacement (including the use of 
lower-carbon fuels, electric or hydrogen technologies, etc.) 

  Urban mass transit 
  Non-motorized transport (bicycles and pedestrian mobility) 
 

Integration of transport and urban development planning (dense development, 
multiple land-use, walking communities, transit connectivity, etc.), leading to a 
reduction in the use of passenger cars 
Transport demand management measures to reduce GHG emissions (e.g., speed 
limits, high-occupancy vehicle lanes, congestion charging/road pricing, parking 
management, restriction or auctioning of license plates, car-free city areas, low-
emission zones) 
Improvement of general transport logistics to increase energy efficiency of 
infrastructure and transport, e.g. reduction of empty running 

  Railway transport ensuring a modal shift of freight and/or passenger transport 

from road to rail (improvement of existing lines or construction of new lines) 

  Waterways transport ensuring a modal shift of freight and/or passenger 

transport from road to waterways (improvement of existing infrastructure or 
construction of new infrastructure) 

 
 
Agriculture, forestry and land use 
 

Afforestation 
(plantations) on non-
forested land 
Reducing emissions 
from the deforestation 

  Afforestation (plantations) on non-forested land 
  Reforestation on previously forested land 

  Biosphere conservation projects (including payments for ecosystem 

services) 

 
 

20 

© Sustainalytics 2015 

or degradation of 
ecosystems 
Sustainable forest 
management 
Agriculture 

 

Forest management activities that increase carbon stocks or reduce the impact 
of forestry activities 

  Agriculture projects that do not deplete and/or improve existing carbon pools 

Livestock 

 
 
Waste and wastewater 
 

Waste and wastewater 
 

 

 

 

(Reduction in fertilizer use, rangeland management, collection and use of 
bagasse, rice husks, or other agricultural waste, low tillage techniques that 
increase carbon contents of soil, rehabilitation of degraded lands, etc.) 
Livestock projects that reduce methane or other GHG emissions (manure 
management with biodigestors, etc.) 

Solid waste management that reduce methane emissions (e.g. incineration of 
waste, landfill gas capture, and landfill gas combustion) 
Treatment of wastewater if not a compliance requirement (e.g. performance 
standard or safeguard) as part of a larger project 

  Waste recycling projects that recover or reuse materials and waste as inputs into 

new products or as a resource 

 
 
Non-energy GHG reductions 
 

Industrial processes 

  Reduction in GHG emissions resulting from industrial process improvements and 

cleaner production (e.g. cement, chemical) 

  Retrofit of existing industrial, commercial and residential infrastructure to switch 

to cooling agent with lower global warming potential 
Carbon capture and storage projects (including enhanced oil recovery) 

 
  Reduction of gas flaring or methane fugitive emissions in the oil and gas industry 
 

Coal mine methane capture 

Air conditioning and 
cooling 
Fugitive emissions and 
carbon capture 

 
Cross-sector activities 
 

Policy and regulation 

 
 

 
 

  National mitigation policy/planning/institutions 
 

Energy sector policies and regulations 
(energy efficiency standards or 
certification schemes; energy efficiency 
procurement schemes; renewable energy 
policies) 
Systems for monitoring the emissions of greenhouse gases 
Efficient pricing of fuels and electricity (subsidy rationalization, efficient end-user 
tariffs, and efficient regulations on electricity generation, transmission, or 
distribution) 

21 

© Sustainalytics 2015 

Energy audits 

Supply chain 

Financing instruments 

Low-carbon 
technologies 

Activities with 
greenhouse gas 
accounting 

 

 

 

 

Education, training, capacity building and awareness raising on climate change 
mitigation/sustainable energy/sustainable transport; mitigation research 
Energy audits to energy end-users, including industries, buildings, and transport 
systems 
Improvements in energy efficiency and GHG reductions in existing product supply 
chains 
Carbon markets and finance (purchase, sale, trading, financing, guarantee and 
other technical assistance). Includes all activities related to compliance-grade 
carbon assets and mechanisms, such as Clean Development Mechanism (CDM), 
Joint Implementation (JI), Assigned Amount Units (AAUs), as well as well-
established voluntary carbon standards like the Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) 
or the Gold Standard. 

  Renewable energy and energy efficiency financing through financial 

intermediaries or similar (e.g. earmarked lines of credit; lines for microfinance 
institutions, cooperatives, etc.) 

  Research and development of renewable energy or energy efficiency 

technologies 

  Manufacture of renewable energy and energy efficiency technologies and 

products 

  Any other activity not included in this list for which the results of an ex-ante 

greenhouse gas accounting (undertaken according to commonly agreed 
methodologies) show emission reductions that are higher than a commonly 
agreed threshold 

 
 
2b: A few examples of climate change adaptation activities 
 

Adaptation Category  Potential Risk 

Adaptation Activity 

Water resources  

Urban development 

(Waste) water 
infrastructure 

Water resources reduction in river water 
levels due to reduced rainfall  
 
Increased urban flooding from 
extreme rainfalls 
 
Increased groundwater salinity due to sea 
level rise and/or coastal flooding 
 

 

Improved catchment management planning 
and regulation of abstraction 

Asset review to identify assets vulnerable to 
increased flooding, then prioritise protection 
works 
Provision of microfinance for domestic 
rainwater harvesting equipment and storage 

22 

 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2015 

APPENDIX 3: Process to select green and inclusive finance projects 
 
Function 
A 
Treasury officer  
 
 
  

  Runs a project disbursement report (e.g. Dashboard) based 
on the green and inclusive finance labels in ACBS (stage 1) 
  Provides  Director  Financial  Markets  (FM),  Director  Risk 
 
Management (RM) and Manager Sustainability (SUS) with 
the report 

Frequency and Output 
Frequency  

      Semi-Annually 

Output 

Activity 

 

  

     Report  on  eligible  green  and  financial 

inclusion disbursements 

Director FM 

  Organizes a meeting together with Manager SUS, Director 

RM and relevant Front-Office Directors. 

  Determines  based  on  report  which  green  and  inclusive 

finance projects are eligible for the sustainability bond. 

Treasury Officer  
  

  Sends  list  of  projects  to  be  tagged  to  the  Sustainability 

bonds (ISIN codes) outstanding to the Mid-Office.  

Input  
Report on eligible  green and inclusive 
disbursements 
 
Output 
List  of  disbursements  to  be  tagged  to 
the Sustainability Bond 
Input  

    List  of  disbursements  to  be  tagged  to  

the Sustainability Bond 
 
Output 

      Identification of eligible assets in ACBS 

Mid-Office 
Officer 

  Enters  the  ISIN  code  in  ACBS  for  the  disbursements  to 

applicable disbursements 

Treasury officer  
 
  

  Provides  report  with  earmarked  green  and  inclusive 
projects  to  Asset  and  Liability  Committee  (ALCO)  for 
information. 

  Prepares newsletter with earmarked projects for investors 
together  with  Marketing  &  Communications  on  a  semi-
annual basis. 

  

Output  
Report 
projects 
 

for  ALCO  on  earmarked 

M&C Officer  
  

  Ensures detailed project disclosure for earmarked projects 
on the external website in line with FMO's disclosure policy 
  Publishes  Sustainability  Bond  newsletter  on  the  external 

 Output  
Semi-Annual  newsletter  for  investors 
(progress report) 

website 

 

 
 

 
 

23 

© Sustainalytics 2015 

APPENDIX 4: Documents reviewed 
The table below provides an overview of all documents on which this second opinion is based. 
 

Title 

Comments 

Approved  Green  Definition 
Proposal (dated 2 October 2014) 
Eligible  Projects 
for  Other 
Footprint  Category  (dated  20 
August 2014) 
Inclusive Finance 

IFC Special Climate Definition 
Sustainability Bond newsletters 
Strategy documentation 
FMO  Environmental  and  Social 
Policy 
MDB  Climate  Finance  report 
Nov 2013 
Final terms Sustainability Bond  
Annual Report 2016 
FMO’s website 
FMO Sustainability Policy 
FMO Investment Criteria 
(February 2017) 
IFC’s Fact sheet: SME Loan Size 
Proxy 

Outlines  FMO’s  definition  of  “green”,  and  criteria  and  eligible 
projects related to climate change adaptation and mitigation 
Outlines eligible projects that would qualify as “green” that fall 
outside of climate change mitigation and adaptation projects 

Outlines FMO’s definition of inclusive finance and criteria  and 
eligible inclusive finance projects 
 
Sustainability Bond newsletters provided on the website 
 
 

 

Transaction details of FMO’s inaugural Sustainability Bond 
 
 
 
 

Definition of Micro, Small, and Medium-size Enterprises 

 

24 

Document 
# 
1 

2 

3 

4 
5 
6 
7 

8 

9 
10 
11 
12 
13 

14 

 
 
 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2015 

Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

30 

