 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

JAIN IRRIGATION SYSTEMS 

GREEN BOND 

 

 

SECOND PARTY OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

January 13th, 2017 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
Ankita Shukla (Toronto) 
www.sustainalytics.com 
Senior Advisor, Advisory Services 
 
ankita.shukla@sustainalytics.com  
www.sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 416 861 0403 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 

Trisha Taneja (Toronto) 
Advisor, Advisory Services 
trisha.taneja@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 647 317 3695 

Charlotte Peyraud (New York)  
Senior Advisor, Institutional Relations 
charlotte.peyraud@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 646 518 0184 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

1  Preface 

2 

Introduction 

3  Sustainalytics’ opinion 

Sustainability Performance of the Issuer 
Sustainalytics’ Opinion of JISL Projects 
Impact of Use of Proceeds 
Conclusion 

APPENDICES 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 

 

 

 
 

3 

3 

4 
4 
5 
6 
8 

9 

25 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

1  PREFACE 
Jain Irrigation Systems Ltd. (JISL) is issuing a green bond that aims to finance / refinance (including through 
acquisition)  renewable  energy,  micro-irrigation,  and  water  efficiency  projects.  JISL  has  engaged 
Sustainalytics to provide a second-party opinion on its green bond issuance and the bond’s environmental 
credentials. Sustainalytics’ Opinion is based on JISL’s projects list which is included in Appendix A. As part 
of  this  engagement,  Sustainalytics  held  conversations  with  members  of  JISL’s  sustainability  team  to 
understand the environmental impact of their business processes and planned use of proceeds for the 
bond issuance. Sustainalytics also reviewed relevant public and internal documents. 
 
2  INTRODUCTION 
Founded in 1986, Jain Irrigation Systems Ltd. (JISL) is India’s largest producer of micro-irrigation systems 
(MIS), and second largest micro-irrigation company in the world. JISL’s diversified portfolio of products 
includes plastic pipes and products, agro-processed products, renewable energy solutions, tissue culture 
plants, financial services and other agricultural inputs. The company operates in 126 countries around the 
world  and  serves  over  5  million  farmers,  most  of  whom  have  less  than  one  hectare  of  land.  JISL  is 
headquartered in Maharashtra, India. 
 
JISL has been recognized as a global leader in modern irrigation systems and innovative technologies in 
the areas of water security and food security. The company was listed as one of the New Sustainability 
Champions  by  the  World  Economic  Forum.  On  its  website,  JISL  states  that  its  mission  is  to  create  a 
sustainable future by fulfilling the company’s vision: “Leave this world better than you found it”. JISL aims 
to  achieve  this  objective  by  integrating  sustainability  into  agricultural  practices  and  improving  the 
livelihoods of farmers. 
 
In line with this objective, JISL is planning to issue a green bond to finance  / refinance expenditures related 
to the development of micro irrigation systems (MIS) and renewable energy projects.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

3 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

3  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION  
 
Sustainability Performance of the Issuer 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that JISL has a  strong sustainability commitment,  and a  robust  internal 
assessment process to mitigate environmental, social, and occupational health and safety risks. 
 
Contribution of use of proceeds to JISL’s sustainability strategy  
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that JISL has a strong commitment to sustainability. This is supported by 
the company’s: (i) corporate philosophy1, (ii) Energy and GHG Policy, and (iii) Water Management Policy 
(see Appendix B for company policies). Within its mission statement and guiding principles, the company 
acknowledges its commitment to society and the environment. In its Energy and GHG Policy, JISL commits 
to  energy  conservation  and  continual  improvement  in  energy  performance  and  reduction  in  GHG 
emissions. This commitment is supported by the company’s Research and Development (R&D) in various 
projects  to  promote  renewable  energy  products,  including:  high  efficiency  LED  solar  street  lighting 
systems, solar pumping systems, and solar photovoltaic. Finally,  in the company’s Water Management 
Policy, JISL commits to the creation, conservation, distribution and purification of water through all of the 
company’s  processes  as  well  as  products.  JISL’s  commitment  is  supported  by  R&D  in  micro-irrigation 
systems (MIS), water supply projects and in the area of hi-tech agriculture.  
 
Given JISL’s commitment to sustainability, as captured by its policies,  and the alignment of JISL’s green 
bond framework with its overall sustainability strategy, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that JISL is well 
positioned to issue green bonds.  
 
Well positioned to mitigate common environmental and social risks in emerging markets 
Sustainalytics recognizes that a common risk stemming from the manufacturing of renewable energy and 
micro-irrigation products in emerging markets is occupational health and safety. Additionally, projects in 
emerging markets are exposed to environmental and social risks such as pollution, poor labour conditions, 
and negative impacts on community well-being. However, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that JISL has a 
strong  environmental  and  risk  assessment  processes  to  mitigate  these  risks,  including  a  robust 
Occupational  Health  and  Safety  process  and  compliance  with  International  Finance  Corporation  (IFC) 
Performance Standards.  
 
The robustness of the company’s Occupational Health and Safety risk mitigation process stems from the 
company’s  (i)  Quality,  Environment,  Occupational  Health  and  Safety  Policy  (see  Appendix  B,  and  also 
available  on  the  JISL  website),  (ii)  OHSAS  18001  certified  management  system,  and  (iii)  Occupational 
Health  and  Safety  Risk  Assessments.  Through  the  company  policy,  JISL  outlines  the  company’s 
commitments to protect and improve the environment, occupational health and safety (OHS) of JISL’s 
associates through sound management and quality practices. This policy is one of the key requirements 
for  the  BS  OHSAS  18001:2007  international  occupational  health  and  safety  management  system 
specification  which  helps  JISL  manage  and  control  OHS  risks.  Additionally,  the  company  conducts  site 

 
1 Jain Irrigation Systems Ltd. Corporate Philosophy. Accessed on October 27, 2016: 
http://www.jains.com/Company/corporate%20philosphy.htm  

4 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

surveys to identify environmental and OHS risks which demonstrates the company’s proactive approach. 
Sustainalytics reviewed JISL’s comprehensive risk assessments which both detects potential hazards and 
determines control procedures. 
 
The rigour of JISL’s Environmental and Social (E&S) control procedures was tested in 2007, when the IFC  
invested and worked with JISL on MIS initiatives as well as for an approved corporate investment2. JISL 
complied with  IFC’s  E&S Performance  Standards  in order to secure  investments.  The IFC Performance 
Standards cover a wide range of issues to address environmental and social risk, including management 
of environmental and social impacts, community health, resource efficiency and pollution prevention, and 
labour conditions. The company had created an E&S Action Plan to mitigate E&S risks described in the IFC 
Performance Standards. This included development of E&S assessment and management systems, and 
development  of  processes  to  manage  labour  and  working  conditions,  pollution  prevention  and 
abatement, and community health, safety and security.  
 
Given the integration of environmental and OHS concerns into its operations, its robust internal risk 
assessment process for renewable energy and micro-irrigation projects, development of processes to 
mitigate E&S risks in alignment with the IFC Performance Standards, and the lack of environmental and 
social controversies associated with the proposed projects, Sustainalytics believes that JISL is well 
positioned to mitigate the common E&S risks in emerging markets.   
 
Sustainalytics’ Opinion of JISL Projects 
JISL’s eligible projects have a clear environmental impact, specifically in the context of India. Proceeds will 
be used to support generation of renewable energy, and achieve water and energy efficiency, particularly 
in  agricultural  irrigation.  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  JISL’s  eligible  projects  offer  clear 
environmental benefits that are aligned with India’s strategic priorities, and the Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs).  
 
Sustainalytics recognizes that the use of proceeds will be allocated to CAPEX (capital expenditures) as well 
as OPEX (operational expenditures) that are specific to eligible projects. Given the nature of the projects, 
Sustainalytics believes that OPEX will be important to maintain projects and will contribute to sustaining 
positive environmental impacts. Sustainalytics has reviewed JISL’s internal system to track OPEX, and is of 
the opinion that it is robust. The systems ensure that OPEX is tracked project-by-project and that it is 
project specific, rather than for the company. 
 
Additionally,  Sustainalytics  has  been  assured  that  any  possible  acquisition  activities  would  be  for  the 
purpose  of  expanding  the  company’s  ability  to  deliver  green  products  and  services,  as  defined  in  the 
project list. 
 
 
 

 
2 Jain Irrigation Systems Ltd. Environmental and Social Action Plan (2007). Accessed on October 23, 2016: 
http://jainpipe.com/PDF/JISL%20ESAP%20and%20Summary.pdf  

5 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Impact of Use of Proceeds 
The importance of renewable energy in India 
At  the  twenty-first  meeting  of  the  Conference  of  Parties  (COP21)  of  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  for  Climate  Change  (UNFCC)  in  December  2015,  India  submitted  its  Intended  Nationally 
Determined Contribution (INDC). INDCs require countries that are signatories to the Paris Agreement to 
make commitments that address climate change and to update those commitments every five years. Key 
goals identified by India in its INDC include (i) reducing the emissions intensity of its GDP by 33-35% by 
2030, using 2005 as the baseline and (ii) achieving 40% cumulative electric power installed capacity from 
non-fossil-fuel-based energy resources by 2030.3  
 
India  hopes  to  meet  this  international  pledge  through  ambitious  national  targets.  The  National  Solar 
Mission is one of the several initiatives under India’s National Action Plan on Climate Change with a target 
of achieving 20GW4 of solar installed capacity by 2022.  
 
In addition to its international commitments and corresponding national targets, renewable energy has a 
particularly high strategic importance in India. India is home to 30% of the world’s global poor, and has 
300 million people who live without access to electricity.5 Currently, India’s two primary sources of energy 
are coal and imported oil6, both of which have been recognized as unsustainable in the face of a transition 
to a lower carbon economy.  
 
Given these two realities, India faces the tremendous challenge of fostering socio-economic development 
while transitioning to a more sustainable economy. In the face of this challenge, renewable energy in India 
can  be  seen  to  play  the  crucial  dual  role  of  mitigating  climate  change  and  aiding  socio-economic 
development.  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  JISL’s  renewable  energy  products  offers  clear 
environmental benefits within the Indian context. 
 
The importance of micro-irrigation systems in India 
Agriculture contributed to 18% of overall GHG emissions from Indiain 20107. The net sown area in India is 
approximately  141  million  hectare  out  of  which  60%  is  irrigated  with  groundwater  which  in  turn 
contributes to 40% of India’s food production and 17.4 per cent of the country’s GDP8. Groundwater in 
India is depleting at alarming rates in the populous regions of the country due to withdrawals exceeding 
the rate of recharge and replenishment9. The rapid growth in groundwater use in India compared to other 

 
3 Ernst & Yong, The Paris Agreement, A Universal Call to Action for Governments and Businesses: What it means for India, 
http://www.ey.com/Publication/vwLUAssets/ey-the-paris-agreement-what-it-means-for-india/$FILE/ey-the-paris-
agreement-what-it-means-for-india.pdf  
4UNFCC, India’s Intended Nationally Determined Contribution 
http://www4.unfccc.int/submissions/INDC/Published%20Documents/India/1/INDIA%20INDC%20TO%20UNFCCC.pdf  
5 UNFCC, India’s Intended Nationally Determined Contribution  
http://www4.unfccc.int/submissions/INDC/Published%20Documents/India/1/INDIA%20INDC%20TO%20UNFCCC.pdf  
6 US Energy Information Administration, India Country Analysis Brief, https://www.eia.gov/beta/international/analysis.cfm?iso=IND  
7 Government of India. First Biennial Update Report to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. December 2015. p.58. 
Accessed on October 21, 2016: http://unfccc.int/resource/docs/natc/indbur1.pdf 
8 WWF, 2013. Water stewardship for industries: the need for a paradigm shift in India. 
9 NASA Earth Science News Team (2009). NASA Satellites Unlock Secret to Northern India's Vanishing Water. Accessed on October 27, 2016: 
http://www.nasa.gov/topics/earth/features/india_water.html  
 

6 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

nations is shown in Appendix C which illustrates the total number of mechanized wells and tube wells 
which rose from less than 1 million in 1960 to 19 million in 200010. 
 
Micro-irrigation  technologies  involving  drip  and  sprinkler  irrigation  are  key  interventions  in  water 
conservation. Micro-irrigation systems (MIS) deliver water directly to the root zone of crops resulting in 
better water use efficiency as well as energy efficiency. Replacing flood method of irrigation with MIS also 
reduces electricity consumption required for pumping  water which eventually  reduces GHG emissions 
through reduced consumption of grid power or fossil fuel based captive power11.  
 
Micro-irrigation has been highlighted as one the important GHG emissions mitigation measure in India's 
First Biennial Update Report to the UNFCCC (December 2015)12. Moreover efficient irrigation is one of the 
few technologies which are recognized as one of the important mitigation as well as adaptation measure 
to climate change by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC)13. 
 
Alignment with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were set in September 2015 and form an agenda for achieving 
sustainable development by the year 2030. These goals are widely considered to be the next step to the 
Millennium Development  Goals (MDG),  which were time-bound to 2015. Of particular importance  for 
JISL’s green energy projects  is SDG 7 Affordable and Clean Energy, which includes a target to (i) ensure 
universal access to affordable, reliable and modern energy services, (ii) increase substantially the share of 
renewable energy, and (iii) double the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency.  
 
In terms of JISL’s micro-irrigation projects, of particular importance is SDG 6 Clean Water and Sanitation, 
which  includes  targets  to  substantially  increase  water-use  efficiency  across  all  sectors  and  ensure 
sustainable withdrawals and supply of freshwater to address water scarcity, and SDG 15 Life on Land, with 
targets  to  combat  desertification,  restore  degraded  land  and  soil,  including  land  affected  by 
desertification, drought and floods, and strive to achieve a land degradation-neutral world. Under the JISL 
Green Bond Framework, eligible green projects may include those related to green energy and micro-
irrigation systems. These projects contribute towards the protection of resources and are  aligned with 
the SDGs. 
 
Alignment with Green Bond Principles 2016 
Sustainalytics has determined that the Jain Irrigation System Ltd. Green Bond aligns to the four pillars of 
the    International  Capital  Markets  Association  (ICMA)  Green  Bond  Principles  201614.  For  detailed 
information please refer to Appendix D: Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form. 

 
10 UN Water. The United Nations World Water Development Report 2015. p. 77. Accessed on October 27, 2016: 
http://unesdoc.unesco.org/images/0023/002318/231823E.pdf  
11 Government of India. First Biennial Update Report to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. December 2015. p.83. 
Accessed on October 21, 2016: http://unfccc.int/resource/docs/natc/indbur1.pdf  
12 Government of India. First Biennial Update Report to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. December 2015. p.93. 
Accessed on October 21, 2016: http://unfccc.int/resource/docs/natc/indbur1.pdf 
13 UNFCCC. India’s Intended Nationally Determined Contribution: Working Towards Climate Justice. p.20, 36. Accessed on October 21, 2016: 
http://www4.unfccc.int/submissions/INDC/Published%20Documents/India/1/INDIA%20INDC%20TO%20UNFCCC.pdf  
14 International Capital Market Association (ICMA), Green Bond Principles, 2016. 16 June 2016: http://www.icmagroup.org/Regulatory-Policy-
and-Market-Practice/green-bonds/green-bond-principles/  

7 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Conclusion 
JISL’s  green  bond  framework  is  transparent  and  provides  clarity  regarding  use  of  proceeds  and  the 
outcomes of the green bond investments. Renewable energy, sustainable water management and eco-
efficient products  are  all  recognized by the Green Bond  Principles  as eligible green project  categories, 
offering clear environmental benefits. In the context of India’s sustainable development challenges, Jain 
Irrigation System’s development of green power and micro-irrigation system projects contribute to an 
important  national  priorities  and  the  country’s  transition  to  a  low-carbon  economy.  Furthermore,  in 
Sustainalytics’ view JISL’s internal environmental, social, and OHS risk assessment process positions it well 
to  address  and  mitigate  potential  environmental  and  social  risks  associated  with  the  projects  elegible 
under the green bond. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Jain Irrigation System’s green bond is credible 
and robust.    

 

 
 

8 

APPENDICES 
 
Appendix A: Jain Irrigation Systems Ltd. Example Green Bonds Project List 
 

Sl. No.  

PROJECT TITLE 

SCOPE 

1.         

8.5 MW Solar Photovoltaic 
Power Project at Jalgaon, 
Maharashtra 

2.         

1.67 MW first of its Kind 
Biogas Based Power 
Generation Project in 
Maharashtra, India 

3.         

Manufacturing and 
installation of Solar Pumps 

4.         

Manufacturing and 
Installation of Solar 
Panels, Water Heating 
Systems and Appliances 

RENEWABLE ENERGY 

One of the largest solar based power generation projects in the region. It is a grid 
connected renewable energy generation at Green Energy Park In Jalgaon.   

Certified as first of its kind biogas project by Ministry of New and Renewable Energy 
(MNRE) India. The project not only processes the food waste produced at Jain Food 
Park but also takes the waste from nearby agro based industries and converts it into 
energy. It is also connected to Grid, however in this case the electricity generated is 
utilized for operations at Jain Food Park  
Jain Irrigation has pioneered the development of complete DC Solar Agri Pump 
systems in India. It is one of the few manufactures of such pumping systems in the in 
the World. Perfectly matched components such as solar panels, controllers, pumps, 
screen pipes, casing pipes, filters are all designed and manufactured in-house by JISL 
leading to superlative performance over long life.  Over last few years, JISL has 
installed more than 20,000 Solar Agri Pump sets across India in 8 to 9 states which is 
more than 50% of the total installations in the country till date.  JISL has also recently 
bagged Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Co. Ltd’s (“MSEDCL”) largest 
tender for supply and installation of 8,959 Solar Agri–Pumps in 20 districts of 
Maharashtra 

Manufacturing of products required for implementation of green energy products 
and promotion of renewable energy: This includes manufacturing of Solar Photo-
Voltaic, (SPV) module through mono/multi crystalline silicon solar cells in the state of 
the art manufacturing facility that demonstrate very high level of automation at Jain 
Green Energy Park. These solar panels are used to convert solar radiation into energy 
in all above solar based projects. Other groups of solar products that promote green 
energy include Solar Water Heaters and Solar Appliance (e.g. solar LED).  

© Sustainalytics 2017 

MICRO IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (MIS) AND MIS BASED TURNKEY PROJECTS 

5.         

Manufacturing of Micro 
Irrigation Products 

6.         

Narmada Canal Project, 
Sanchore (Rajasthan) 

7.         

Community Micro 
Irrigation Project in Kandi 
belt of Talwara and 
Hajipur Blocks of 
Hoshiarpur, Punjab 

8.         

KNNL Shiggaon, Integrated 
Micro Irrigation Project, 
Karnataka  

Manufacturing of products required for implementation of micro irrigation and 
water supply projects. The Micro-Irrigation Division manufactures a full range of 
precision-irrigation products and provides services from soil survey, engineering 
design to agronomic support. 
Providing network of HDPE pipelines for Sprinkler irrigation to farmers. This includes 
construction of diggies pump rooms sump wells and boundary wall of Choura minor 
of Sanchore lift and construction of VRB on Sanchore lift distributary on 10.05 to 
46.35 km (tail). The major work includes; execution of earth work, single P.C.C. block 
lining, pucca structure, diggies, pump room, sump well etc. & supplying, laying, 
jointing, testing & commissioning of distribution network (main &sub mains) of High 
Density Polyethylene (HDPE) pipe with electrically operated motor with desired 
accessories  including designing and layout of mechanical work on turnkey basis. 

Providing network of HDPE pipelines for Sprinkler and drip irrigation to community 
of farmers. 

Providing network of HDPE pipelines and distribution network with PVC pipes for 
Sprinkler Irrigation to farmers through water user associations. The scope covers 
surveying including for 9900 hectare command area, designing supplying, installing, 
testing& commissioning suitable pumps & motor wherever required for individual 
blocks, detail design for different diameter & pressure rating PVC/HDPE pipes with 
valves wherever necessary from Lift Irrigation System (LIS) delivery chamber to 
distribution line and distribution line to sump, from sump to pump house, from 
pump house to main line of sprinkler unit, from main line of sprinkler to to lateral 
line then to sprinkler set in farmers field. Construction of sump, valve chambers & 
pump house, location with dimensions for individual block from six delivery 
chambers of LIS including civil works. It includes: construction of 110KV/33KV 
substations & construction of 33kKV overhead line, construction of 33KV/11KV 
substation, construction of 11KV overhead lines providing 11KV/433volts 
transformers & further service connecting to pump houses and providing training to 
water user & departmental staff, two year maintenance after commissioning & one 
year defect liability period after completion of maintenance period etc. complete on 
turnkey basis. 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

9.         

Medium Irrigation Project 
in Nadaun Distt. Hamirpur 
(HP)  

10.     

Balh Valley (Left Bank) 
Nedium Irrigation Project 
in District Mandi H.P. 

Providing network of HDPE pipelines and distribution network with HDPE pipes for 
Sprinkler/Drip irrigation to farmers and Operation & Maintenance of the Scheme for 
5 Years. 
Providing network of HDPE pipelines and distribution network with HDPE pipes for 
Sprinkler/Drip Irrigation to farmers. The project includes survey, Investigation, 
planning, designing, estimation and execution of the project in a time bound manner 
of 2 year along with submission of PERT/CPM Chart & further O&M of the project for 
5 year in Balh Valley of  District Mandi H.P. 

11.     

 
 
Gujarat Water  Resource 
Development Project, 
Gujarat 
 

12.     

Ministry of Agriculture & 
Animal Resources 
(MINAGRI) Project, 
Rwanda 

13.     

Kiwbezi Cluster Micro 
Irrigation Development 
Project, National Irrigation 
Board, Nairobi, Kenya. 

14.     

Sardar Sarovar Nigam 
Limited Project, 
Ahmedabad, Gujarat  

Construction of PINS (Pressurized Irrigation Network) along with micro irrigation for 
area under tube wells in various districts of Gujarat.  

The scope includes supply & execution of micro & sprinkler irrigation system on 
turnkey basis. The project is implemented under rehabilitation scheme implemented 
by the Government. The Government has given 1 acre land to each shelters to earn 
bread & butter & keep engage under agriculture. The crops covered under project 
are short duration cash crops; Tomatoes, Cabbage, Cauliflowers, Cucumber, Egg 
Plant, Pigeon peas, Maize, Banana, Orange etc. 
The scope includes supply & installation of micro irrigation system on turnkey basis. 
The project area is scarce of water resources and prevailing conditions are drought 
like.  The rainfall in the area is less than 200 mm. There is no water available for 
drinking and irrigation at project site. Available water in ‘Kiwbezi’ river is not 
sufficient to fulfill the need of drinking and irrigation of 800 acres. Apart from limited 
water, there is no power available to operate irrigation system. It has been informed 
that since many generations, farmers could not grow crops because of short rainfall. 
Considering all hurdles JISL has planned and executed successfully, powerless micro 
irrigation system under gravity. 
 
Constructing UGPL Sub Minor work including survey, documentation, alignment for 
pipeline work, supplying & installation of pipelines & ancillaries, construction of 
valve chambers & outlet chambers & commissioning of the UGPL SM & handing over 
to farmer groups as per specification of SSNNL & design of WAPCOS. 
 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

15.     

Krishna Bhagya Jal Nigam 
Limited (KBJNL), Bagalkot 
Dristrict, Ramthal Project 

16.     

Kantai Bandhara, A Water 
Conservation Project at 
Girna River 

17.     

Solar Powered Micro 
Irrigation Project at 
Kurukshetra, Haryana. 

18.     

Drip Irrigation Project at 
Raipur Chhattisgarh 

Providing network of HDPE pipelines and distribution network with PVC pipes for 
Drip Irrigation to farmers through water user association. This includes design, 
supply, Installation, testing and commissioning of Ramthal (Marol) flud stage 2 
automated Drip Irrigation system, pumping machineries, rising main including civil 
work, electrical work and supply of spare parts, tools related with Drip Irrigation 
system etc. including operation & maintenance of the system for five years on 
turnkey basis. 
Kantai Bandhara (a weir on seasonal river Girna in Jalgaon), with water backed till 5 
kilomiters, and a capacity of 180 crore liters was constructed by Jain Irrigation at a 
cost of Rs. 7.86 cores. 50% of this water will be used by the surrounding eight villages 
for drinking and farming and the remaining 50%, will be used by Jain Irrigation. 
Providing network and distribution up to chak (field) using solar pumps Micro 
Irrigation to farmers. It further covers planning, design, supply, installation, testing, 
commissioning and comprehensive operation & maintenance for 3 Years of 
community based solar/ grid powered micro-irrigation infrastructure schemes in 
existing canal commands in various districts of Haryana – EPC towards successful 
commissioning plus 1 year of assured performance demonstration after 
commissioning and comprehensive O&M of the schemes for 3 years thereafter. 

Providing network of PVC pipelines and distribution network with PVC pipes for Drip 
irrigation to farmers. This includes; surveying, design, supply, installation, testing and 
commissioning along with the civil works such as intake structure, intake pipe, sump 
well overhead pump house, pumping machineries, including supply and erection of 
PVC pipe distribution network with micro (drip) irrigation system and three years 
operation and maintenance of the system for 500 ha area of proposed Hardi Anicut 
irrigation project on Mahanadi. 

WATER EFFICIENCY 

19.     

Drinking Water Supply 
Project at Bhilai, 
Chhatisgarh 

20.     

Drinking water supply 
Project for Gokak 
Municipal Corporation, 
Belagavi, Karnataka 

Providing MDPE Pipe Network and House Service Connections under Bhagirathi Nal 
Sanyojan Yojana in Bhilai MC 

Construction of works & services for operation & management of 24x7 water supply 
system for city municipal corporation of Gokak. This includes providing HDPE 
distribution network for 24x7 water supply, using MDPE pipe for house service 
connections with water meter, operation & maintenance of distribution network for 
5 years including billing and setting up customer care centre 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

21.     

22.     

Drinking water supply 
Project for Nipani 
Municipal Corporation, 
Belgaum, Karnataka 

Remodelling of 
Distribution System in 
Jamkhandi, Vijaypura, 
Bagalkot, Karnataka 

23.     

Drinking water supply 
Project for Haliyal, 
Karnataka 

24.     

25.     

Treated Effluent Supply 
Project for Public Health 
and Engineering 
Department, Fatehabad 
and Tohana, Haryana 

Water Supply project, 
Dewas, Madhya Pradesh 
And  
Public Health Engg. 
Simhastha Project, Ujjain, 
Madhya Pradesh 

26. 

Sewerage Water Supply 
Project at Chandigarh, 
Punjab  

Construction of works & services for operation & management of 24x7 water supply 
system for city municipal corporation of Nipani. This includes providing HDPE 
distribution network for 24x7 water supply, using MDPE pipe for house service 
connections with water meter, operation & maintenance of distribution network for 
5 years including billing and setting up customer care centre 

Providing HDPE distribution network for 24x7 water supply, using PE pipe for house 
service connections with water meter, operation & maintenance of distribution 
network. 

Construction of works & services for operation & management of 24x7 water supply 
system for city municipal corporation of Haliyal. This includes providing HDPE 
distribution network for 24x7 water supply, using MDPE pipe for house service 
connections with water meter, operation & maintenance of distribution network for 
5 years including billing and setting up customer care centre 

Providing HDPE Pumping Main for conveyance of treated effluent to disposal point.  

Providing, laying & jointing 110 to 500 mm dia  HDPE pipe water distribution 
network & House service connection work in Dewas Town. 
Another project’s scope include; providing, laying, jointing, testing, commissioning, 
trial run, operation & maintenance upto Mela (religious fair) period and dismantling 
after mela period of various components of distribution Network of  21094 meters 
length.   
Use of sewerage/waste water through Solar pumps and HDPE pipeline network in 13 
districts of Haryana. This includes Surveying, Planning, Designing, Supply and laying 
of HDPE pipeline dia 90mm to 315mm and civil works with material pertaining to 
construction of sumps, pump houses, renovation of ponds and Installation of Solar 
Photovoltaic SPV pump sets complete in all respects with commissioning of project 
at various locations in Punjab state 

 
 

Appendix B: Environmental and Social policies 

 

 

 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

 
 

 

15 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

 
 
 

 
 

 

16 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Appendix C: Growth in Agricultural Groundwater Use in India 
 

 
 
Source: UN Water. The United Nations World Water Development Report 2015. p. 65.  
Accessed on October 27, 2016: http://unesdoc.unesco.org/images/0023/002318/231823E.pdf   

 

 
 

17 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 

 

 

 
 

24 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics is the largest independent provider of sustainability 
research, analysis, and services to investors. We serve over 250 
institutional investors which include some of the world's largest asset 
owners and asset managers. Through over 20 years of experience 
serving the responsible investment (RI) market, we have gained a 
reputation for providing high-quality ESG research solutions and 
excellent client service. 

Sustainalytics is headed by seasoned professionals in the field of 
business, finance, and sustainability, with a wealth of experience in the 
Responsible Investment area. After more than 20 years of local 
experience and expertise in the Responsible Investment (RI) market 
Sustainalytics has developed a comprehensive understanding of trends 
and best practices and a solid process to assist organisations in 
integrating ESG considerations into their policies and strategies. We 
have worked with some of the world’s financial institutions including 
pension plans, investment managers and banks providing customised 
support to help them achieve their RI objectives. Clients include ABN 
AMRO, APG, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank, ING Bank, Lombard 
Odier, Lloyds Bank, Triodos Bank, UBS and over 250 other financial 
institutions and organisations. 

Sustainalytics now has a staff of 250 employees globally, including over 
120 analysts, with operations in Amsterdam, Boston, Bucharest, 
Frankfurt, New York, Paris, London, Singapore, Sydney, Timisoara, and 
Toronto, and representation in Brussels and Washington DC. 

In 2015, Sustainalytics was named the Best 
SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
GlobalCapital. In December 2014, for the 
third year in a row, Sustainalytics was 
named best sustainable and responsible 
investment research firm in the 
Independent Research in Responsible 
Investment (IRRI) Survey, conducted by 
Thomson Reuters and SRI-CONNECT.  

 
 

25 

