 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

APPLE INC. 

GREEN BOND 

 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND-PARTY 

OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

 

June 13, 2017 

www.sustainalytics.com 

Trisha Taneja (Toronto) 
Advisor, Advisory Services 
trisha.taneja@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 647 317 3695 

Charlotte Peyraud (New York) 
Senior Advisor, Institutional Relations  
charlotte.peyraud@sustainalytics.com  
(+1) 646 518 0184 

Catarina da Silva (Amsterdam) 
Senior Advisor, Advisory Services 
catarina.dasilva@sustainalytics.com 
(+31) 20 205 00 45 

 

 
 

Vikram Puppala  

© Sustainalytics 2017 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

1. 

Introduction 

2.  Overview of Issuer 

3.  Framework Overview 

3.1 Use of Proceeds 
Eligible Projects 

3.2 Project Selection Process 
3.3 Management of Proceeds 
3.4 Reporting 

Allocation Reporting 
Impact Reporting 
Project Reporting 
3.5 Compliance review 

4.  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 

Section 1: Sustainability Performance of the Issuer 
Section 2: Impact of Use of Proceeds 
Conclusion 

 

 

 

Appendices 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 

 
 
  
 

 

 

 

2 

2 

3 
3 
6 
7 
7 
7 
8 
8 
9 
9 

10 
10 
11 
13 

14 

21 

1 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

1. INTRODUCTION 

 
Apple Inc. is planning to issue its second green bond (2017 Green Bond), the proceeds of which will be 
allocated to projects focused on renewable energy, energy and water efficiency, green buildings, creating 
a closed-loop supply chain, and using environmentally friendly materials in their products. The company 
has engaged Sustainalytics to provide a second opinion on Apple’s 2017 Green Bond Framework and on 
the bond’s environmental credentials. As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with 
Apple’s  legal,  treasury  and  sustainability  teams  to  understand  the  use  of  proceeds,  project  selection 
process,  management  of  proceeds,  and  reporting  aspects  of  Apple’s  2017  Green  Bond,  as  well  as  its 
environmental  strategy.  Sustainalytics  also  reviewed  relevant  public  and  internal  documents  from  the 
company. This document contains two sections: Framework Overview – a summary of Apple’s 2017 Green 
Bond Framework; and Sustainalytics’ Opinion – an opinion on Apple’s 2017 Green Bond Framework. 
 

2. OVERVIEW OF ISSUER 

 
Apple  designs,  manufactures,  and  markets  mobile  communication  and  media  devices,  personal 
computers, and portable digital music players to consumers, small and mid-sized businesses, education, 
and enterprise and government customers worldwide. The company sells and delivers digital content and 
applications through the iTunes Store, App Store, iBooks Store, Mac App Store, and Apple Music. It also 
sells its products through its retail and online stores, and direct sales force, as well as through third-party 
cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, and value-added resellers. Apple was founded in 1977 
and is headquartered in Cupertino, California. 
 
Apple  is  issuing  its  second  green  bond  that  aims  to  fund  projects  that  are  focused  on  environmental 
sustainability across its global business divisions and operations.   
 
These projects will align with its three environmental priorities1:  

1.  reducing  its  impact  on  climate  change  by  using  renewable  energy  sources  and  driving  energy 

efficiency in its facilities, products and supply chain;  

2.  pioneering the use of greener materials in its products and processes; and, 
3.  conserving resources.  

 
The following section summarizes Apple’s 2017 Green Bond framework including the use of proceeds, the 
management of proceeds, and reporting. 
 
 
 
 

 
1 2017 Environmental Responsibility Report, covering fiscal year 2016, page 3, 
https://images.apple.com/environment/pdf/Apple_Environmental_Responsibility_Report_2017.pdf 

 

 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

3. FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW  

 
3.1 Use of Proceeds 
 
Apple will allocate an amount equal to the net proceeds from sales of the 2017 Green Bond to one or 
more projects that are eligible according to the below criteria. Any proceeds allocated to eligible projects 
in Apple’s supply chain will represent expenditures made by Apple or any of its subsidiaries. Apple or its 
subsidiaries will directly invest in eligible projects in its own facilities or its suppliers’ facilities.  
 

1.  EXPENDITURES RELATED TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF NEW AND ONGOING RENEWABLE ENERGY PROJECTS 
TO REDUCE EMISSIONS IN APPLE’S CORPORATE FACILITIES AND SUPPLY CHAIN, INCLUDING SOLAR AND 
WIND PROJECTS, OR THE ASSOCIATED ENERGY STORAGE SOLUTIONS.  

 
Use  of Proceeds:  Proceeds  of  the  2017  Green  Bond may  be  allocated to  new and  ongoing  renewable 
energy projects, including, but not limited to, solar and wind projects.  Apple will also consider projects 
that provide energy storage solutions for renewable energy.  
 
Context:  As  one  of  its  environmental  priorities,  Apple  has  identified  renewable  energy  use  as  a  key 
strategy to reduce its climate change impacts.  The company has committed to powering all of its facilities 
with 100 percent renewable energy. In addition, together with its suppliers, Apple has a commitment to 
bring more than 4 gigawatts of new clean power online worldwide by 2020.2 In its 2017 Environmental 
Responsibility  Report,  Apple  states  that,  as of  April 2017,  between  its  own  clean  energy  projects  that 
target  emissions-reduction  from  upstream  suppliers,  and  those  clean  energy  projects  that  its  direct 
suppliers have embarked on, Apple already has commitments for 2 gigawatts of clean energy in Apple’s 
supply chain.3  
 

2.  EXPENDITURES  RELATED  TO  PROJECTS  THAT  HAVE  RECEIVED  WITHIN  THE  LAST  THREE  YEARS,  OR  ARE 
EXPECTED  TO  RECEIVE,  CERTIFICATION  OF  LEED  GOLD  OR  PLATINUM  OR  BREEAM  VERY  GOOD, 
EXCELLENT,  OR OUTSTANDING  “GREEN  BUILDING”  STANDARDS,  OR  OTHER  REGIONAL  GREEN  BUILDING 
STANDARDS 

 
Use of Proceeds: Proceeds of the 2017 Green Bond may be allocated to green buildings that have or are 
expected to receive either LEED or BREEAM certification at the highest levels: LEED Gold or Platinum, or 
BREEAM Very Good, Excellent, or Outstanding.  Apple expects to apply regional green building standards 
to  eligible  projects  with  the  same  level  of  scrutiny  as  the  LEED  and  BREEAM  standards.    For  existing 
buildings, certification must have been received within the last three years.  
 

 
2 2017 Environmental Responsibility Report, covering fiscal year 2016 
https://images.apple.com/environment/pdf/Apple_Environmental_Responsibility_Report_2017.pdf .  
3  2017 Environmental Responsibility Report, covering fiscal year 2016 
https://images.apple.com/environment/pdf/Apple_Environmental_Responsibility_Report_2017.pdf . 

 

 

3 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Context: Apple reports that environmental design, management and operation of facilities are a priority 
for the company.  In its 2017 Environmental Responsibility Report, Apple confirmed that its data centers 
in Oregon, Nevada and North Carolina have all earned LEED Platinum certification. 
 

3.  EXPENDITURES RELATED TO THE IMPLEMENTATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL DESIGN ELEMENTS FOR NEW OR 

ONGOING BUILDING DEVELOPMENTS, SUCH AS HIGH PERFORMANCE MECHANICAL SYSTEMS, NATURAL 
VENTILATION, ON-SITE RENEWABLE ENERGY AND HIGH-PERFORMANCE LIGHTING SYSTEMS.  

 
Use  of  Proceeds:  Proceeds  of  the  2017  Green  Bond  may  be  allocated  to  projects  that  enable  the 
implementation  of  environmental  design  elements  into  new  or  ongoing  building  developments,  or 
renovations.  These projects may or may not be part of LEED- or BREEAM-certified buildings or include 
energy efficiency projects at existing facilities. Projects that meet criterion #2 and/or #4 are excluded from 
this  criterion  in  order  to  avoid  double  counting.  Projects  may  include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  high-
performance  mechanical  systems,  natural  ventilation,  on-site  renewable  energy  and  high-performing 
lighting systems. 
 
Context:  Apple states that considering the environment in the design of a new building or renovations of 
existing facilities is a priority.  The company articulates in its Environmental, Health and Safety Policy4 a 
commitment  to  designing  its  facilities  in  a  manner  that  promotes  energy  efficiency  and  protects  the 
environment.  For  example,  environmental  design  has  been  a  key  consideration  in  its  new  campus  in 
Cupertino, where Apple is constructing a facility that is highly energy efficient and entirely powered by 
renewable energy. 
 

4.  EXPENDITURES RELATED TO ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECTS AND TECHNOLOGIES FOR APPLE’S CORPORATE 

FACILITIES, PRODUCTS, OR SUPPLY CHAIN, SUCH AS HEATING, VENTILATION AND AIR CONDITIONING 
SYSTEMS UPGRADES, LIGHTING RETROFITS AND ENERGY MONITORS AND CONTROLS. 

 
Use of Proceeds: Proceeds of the 2017 Green Bond may be allocated to energy efficiency projects and 
technologies,  including  but  not  limited  to,  heating,  ventilation,  and  air  conditioning  system  upgrades, 
lighting retrofits, and the installation of energy monitors and controls at the company’s existing corporate 
facilities, retail offices, data centers, and supplier facilities. Proceeds may also be allocated to the research 
and development of energy efficient product technologies like batteries or energy audits that monitor 
energy usage. 
 
Context: In its 2017 Environmental Responsibility Report, Apple states that it considers energy efficiency 
to be the first step in its renewable energy strategy, and the company views its own facilities, including 
its  corporate  campuses,  retail  offices  and  data  centers,  as  an  important  starting  point  for  fulfilling  its 
environmental  commitments.5  In  2015,  Apple  started  engaging  directly  with  suppliers  to  find  ways  to 

 
4 Apple’s Environmental, Health and Safety Policy Statement, 
http://images.apple.com/ca/environment/pdf/Apple_Environmental_Responsibility_Report_2015.pdf.  
5   2017 Environmental Responsibility Report, covering fiscal year 2016 
https://images.apple.com/environment/pdf/Apple_Environmental_Responsibility_Report_2017.pdf . 
 

 

 

4 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

reduce their energy use. As part of this program, Apple conducted energy audits and implemented energy 
training programs at several supplier facilities in 2016 to reduce energy consumption in Apple’s supply 
chain. 6 
 

5.  EXPENDITURES RELATED TO WATER EFFICIENCY, WATER CONSERVATION, AND WATER QUALITY PROJECTS 
AND TECHNOLOGIES FOR ITS CORPORATE FACILITIES, PRODUCTS, OR SUPPLY CHAIN, SUCH AS UPGRADES 
TO WATER EFFICIENT FIXTURES AND WATER EFFICIENT IRRIGATION AND INCREASED USE OF RECYCLED 
WATER. 

 
Use of Proceeds: Proceeds of the 2017 Green Bond may be allocated to projects and technologies that 
lead to  greater water efficiencies  at  Apple’s existing corporate or supplier facilities,  including, but  not 
limited  to,  upgrading  to  water  efficient  fixtures,  implementing  water  efficient  irrigation  systems,  and 
projects and technologies that increase the use of recycled water. Proceeds may be allocated to research 
and development of water efficient product technologies, like a product machining tool that requires less 
consumption of process water.  Proceeds may also be allocated to projects like water conservation audits 
that monitor water use. 
 
Context: Apple states that it recognizes the importance of conserving natural resources, such as water, as 
one of its environmental priorities. The company seeks to conserve water by maximizing its use of recycled 
water, and reducing water use in manufacturing, cooling, landscaping, and sanitation. The company tracks 
and discloses in its 2017 Environmental Responsibility Report, its company-level water usage, as well as 
its water use by facility type (data centers, corporate offices, and retail stores). Apple also states that it 
prioritizes its water conservation efforts based on use and water risks. In 2013, Apple initiated a program 
to work with suppliers to reduce water use at their manufacturing facilities. 7 
 

6.  EXPENDITURES RELATED TO ADVANCING APPLE’S GOAL OF A CLOSED LOOP SUPPLY CHAIN THAT FOCUSES 
ON  THE  ENTIRE  LIFE  CYCLE  OF  APPLE’S  PRODUCTS,  SUCH  AS  PROJECTS  THAT  IMPROVE  MATERIAL 
EFFICIENCY,  INCREASE  THE  USE  OF  SUSTAINABLY  SOURCED  MATERIALS  LIKE  BIO-PLASTICS,  RECYCLED 
ALUMINUM  OR  RESPONSIBLY  SOURCED  PAPER,  CREATE  NEW  SOURCES  OF  THESE  MORE  SUSTAINABLE 
MATERIALS,  AND  ENHANCE  MATERIAL  RECOVERY  FROM  APPLE’S  PRODUCTS  AT  THE  END  OF  THEIR  LIFE 
CYCLES. 

 
Use of Proceeds: Proceeds of the 2017 Green Bond may be allocated to projects that enhance recycling, 
material recovery and reuse, including sourcing of recycled components and end-of-life product material 
recovery. Proceeds may also be allocated towards diversion of waste from landfills.    
 
Context: As reflected in its 2017 Environmental Responsibility Report, Apple is committed to conserving 
resources, recycling materials, and waste management, both with respect to its products and its facilities. 
In April 2017, Apple announced its goal to create closed-loop supply chains, with the aim of ending their 

 
6 Apple’s Environmental, Health and Safety Policy Statement, 
http://images.apple.com/ca/environment/pdf/Apple_Environmental_Responsibility_Report_2015.pdf. 
7 Apple’s Environmental, Health and Safety Policy Statement, 
http://images.apple.com/ca/environment/pdf/Apple_Environmental_Responsibility_Report_2015.pdf. 

 

 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

reliance on mining altogether. This means Apple will be investigating ways to build products using only 
renewable  resources  or  recycled  materials,  and  will  be  pursuing  ways  to  better  recover  and  recycle 
materials from its products.  
 

7.  EXPENDITURES RELATED TO PROJECTS THAT FACILITATE THE USE OF MATERIALS THAT ARE SAFER FOR THE 
ENVIRONMENT  AND  HUMAN  HEALTH,  SUCH  AS  CONTINUED  ELIMINATION  OF  TOXIC  SUBSTANCES 
COMMONLY USED IN THE INDUSTRY IN ACCORDANCE WITH ITS REGULATED SUBSTANCES SPECIFICATION 
(AVAILABLE AT HTTP://WWW.APPLE.COM/ENVIRONMENT/REPORTS/). 

 
Use of Proceeds: Proceeds of the 2017 Green Bond may be allocated to projects that eliminate the use of 
toxic substances (according to its Regulated Substance Specification). Proceeds may also be allocated to 
projects that reduce air pollution at Apple’s own facilities and supplier facilities. 
 
Context:  Using  greener  materials  in  its  products  is  an  important  environmental  goal  reflected  in  the 
company’s three environmental priorities.   
 
All of Apple’s products must comply with the restrictions listed in its Regulated Substances Specification, 
which describes Apple’s global restrictions on the use of certain chemical substances or materials in its 
products, accessories, manufacturing processes, and packaging used for shipping products to customers. 
This Regulated Substances Specification is  a  comprehensive list of substances with Chemical Abstracts 
Service (CAS) registry numbers that identify unique substances. Apple requires its suppliers to adhere to 
this Regulated Substances Specification and to demonstrate compliance by providing test reports from 
certified  labs  as  proof  of  compliance.   Apple  derives  these  restrictions  from  international  laws  or 
directives, agency or eco-label requirements; and its policies state that in many cases, the company must 
go  beyond  minimum  legal  requirements.   Examples  of  international  laws  and  directives  focused  on 
restricting toxic substance use include, but are not limited to: 
 

•  REACH SVHCs: EU’s Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation, and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH). 
Substances  that  may  have  serious  and  often  irreversible  effects  on  human  health  and  the 
environment can be identified as substances of very high concern (SVHCs). 

•  Ozone depleting chemicals cited by the Montreal Protocol. 
•  OSPAR: OSPAR List of Chemicals for Priority Action, OSPAR Convention for the Protection of the 

Marine Environment of the North-East Atlantic, 2004. 

•  Clean Production Action (CPA): GreenScreen® for Safer Chemicals, 2014. 

 
Eligible Projects 
 
Any project that meets the above eligibility criteria, including the new and ongoing developments of such 
projects, are eligible to be funded in whole or in part by an allocation of the green bond proceeds.   
 
Eligible projects may include projects of Apple’s subsidiaries that meet the eligibility criteria. Any proceeds 
allocated to eligible projects in Apple’s supply chain will represent expenditures made by Apple or any of 
its subsidiaries.  

 

 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

3.2 Project Selection Process 
 
Apple’s Environment, Policy and Social Initiatives (EPSI) team will: 
 

(i) 
(ii) 

assess and determine project eligibility; and, 
recommend an allocation of proceeds to eligible projects. 

 
These projects are developed and managed by central teams, which are primarily based in Cupertino.  For 
example,  Apple  has  a  Global  Energy  Team  that  manages  all  corporate  renewable  energy  and  energy 
efficiency projects; centralized Real Estate & Facilities teams that track and plan for all facilities worldwide, 
including green buildings and its new campus; and a Global Data Center team that manages the global 
expansion of its data centers. 
 
Apple’s  finance  department  will  track  the  allocation  of  the  green  bond  proceeds  and,  together  with 
members of Apple’s EPSI, legal and treasury teams, review projects and budgets on a semi-annual basis. 
This  review  includes  details  for  projects  that  have  been  recommended  for  allocation,  such  as  a  brief 
description of the project, the country in which the project is located, and the anticipated expenditures 
for the project.  Apple’s EPSI team will ensure that each project meets the eligibility criteria and at least 
one of Apple’s three environmental priorities.   
 
The company’s Vice President of Environment, Policy and Social Initiatives will approve the final allocation 
of proceeds. 
 
3.3 Management of Proceeds  
 
The proceeds from the 2017 Green Bond will be managed by Apple’s finance department. Pending the 
allocation  of  the  green  bond  proceeds,  the  company  will  temporarily  invest  an  amount  equal  to  the 
balance of the proceeds in cash, cash equivalents and/or U.S. treasury securities. Payment of principal 
and interest on the 2017 Green Bond will be made from the company’s general funds and will not be 
directly linked to the performance of any eligible projects. 
 
Apple expects to spend the majority of green bond proceeds within two years of the date of issuance. 
 
3.4 Reporting  
 
Throughout the term of the  2017 Green Bond, until the proceeds have been fully allocated to eligible 
projects, Apple commits to publishing annual updates of the allocation of the proceeds and impact of 
projects  that  have  received  allocations.  The  annual  allocation  and  expected  impact  evaluation  will  be 
reported as a separate green bond report (which will be available to investors within one year from the 
date of issuance of the 2017 Green Bond). These updates will be published on the company’s website at 
investor.apple.com  and  will  be  accompanied  by  (1)  a  letter  from  Sustainalytics,  with  respect  to  the 
compliance of projects, with the eligibility criteria (see section 3.5 Compliance Review for further details), 
(2) assertions by management that the net proceeds of the 2017 Green Bond were allocated to eligible 

 

 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

projects, and (3) an annual report from an independent registered public accounting firm in respect of its 
examination of management’s assertions conducted in accordance with attestation standards established 
by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. 
  
Allocation Reporting 
 
Apple commits to detailing the aggregate allocation of the proceeds, and to the extent practicable, Apple 
also intends to report the allocation to eligible projects at a category level, which is consistent with the 
eligibility criteria, subject to confidentiality considerations.  
 
Impact Reporting 
 
In addition to its allocation reporting, Apple commits to publishing annual updates on the 
environmental impacts of the projects funded with green bond proceeds. 
 
Where relevant, Apple will report on other Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) in aggregate for green 
bond projects, such as the following: 
 
 

Key Performance Indicators 

Renewable Energy 
 

•  Renewable energy installed capacity (kW or MW) 
• 
•  GHG emissions avoided (in CO2e tons) 

Energy produced from renewable sources (kWh or MWh) 

Energy Efficiency 
 

• 
• 

Energy saved aggregate (kWh) 
Energy saved due to building retrofits or design (kW) 

Water 

Waste 

  Water use savings (gallons) 

•  Waste diverted from landfills (tons or % diversion) 
•  Waste recycled or composted (tons) 

Resource Use 
 

•  Bio-based material use (% of material in product) 
•  Recycled content use (% material in product) 

In  addition,  if  relevant,  Apple  will  (1)  provide  a  list  of  buildings  that  are  certified,  or  are  expected  to 
become  certified,  LEED  Gold  or  Platinum,  or  BREEAM  Very  Good,  Excellent,  or  Outstanding,  or  other 
regional green building standards, to which bond proceeds have been allocated (subject to confidentiality 
considerations), and (2) report the number and type of toxic substances removed from its products and 
accessories.  Apple may also report on additional metrics as feasible and relevant. 
 
 
 

 

 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Project Reporting 
 
Subject to confidentiality considerations, Apple will provide additional descriptions of select projects 
funded with green bond proceeds. 
 
3.5 Compliance review   
 
In  addition  to  its  own  annual  reporting,  Apple  will  obtain  a  letter  from  Sustainalytics, with  respect  to 
Apple’s  green  bond  projects’  compliance  with the  eligibility  criteria.  Sustainalytics  will  review  a  broad 
sample of projects from the total allocated projects in order to determine whether they meet the use of 
proceeds criteria defined in the framework. Sustainalytics will provide a report of the evaluation, which 
Apple  will  disclose  publicly.  In  an  unlikely  event  that  one  or  more  projects  do not  meet  the  eligibility 
criteria, Apple will reallocate the green bond proceeds to other projects that meet one of the criteria. 

 

 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

4. SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 

 
Section 1: Sustainability Performance of the Issuer 
 
Contribution of the 2017 Green Bond to Apple’s environmental strategy  
In its 2017 Environment Responsibility Report, covering fiscal year 2016, Apple emphasises the following 
three  environmental  commitments:  (i)  Combat  climate  change  –  reducing  carbon  emissions  in  their 
facilities and their supply chains worldwide by using renewable energy and achieving energy efficiency in 
its products; (ii) Conserve finite  resources  –  setting a goal to produce all products  using  a closed-loop 
supply  chain,  where  products  are  built  using  only  renewable  resources  or  recycled  material;  and  (iii) 
Prioritize greener products and services – using greener materials in its products and services.8  
 
In addition to outlining these broad commitments, Apple has also set relevant targets in some of these 
areas.  For  example,  Apple  has  a  target  to  power  its  facilities  worldwide  with  100  percent  renewable 
energy; in addition, together with its suppliers, Apple has a commitment to bring more than 4 gigawatts 
of new clean power online worldwide by 2020.1 Finally, Apple also reports on performance with respect 
to these commitments and targets annually in its environmental responsibility report. For example, Apple 
reported that, in 2016, 96 percent of the electricity used at Apple’s global facilities came from renewable 
energy, reducing its carbon emissions by nearly 585,000 metric tons.9 Another example of reporting on 
performance is demonstrated by Apple’s closed-loop supply chain commitment. In its iMac Environment 
Report, Apple reported that, for its 21.5-inch iMac, the stand is made with 30 percent recycled aluminum, 
the speaker enclosures are made with 35 percent post-consumer recycled plastic, and the fan assembly 
is made with 28 percent bio-based plastic.10 Similarly, Apple reported that for its iPhone 7 product, plastics 
used in the internal antenna are made with 35 percent post-consumer recycled content and plastics used 
in the display frame are made with 28 percent bio-based content.11 
 
Overall, Apple’s 2017 Green Bond will contribute to these environmental priorities; each use of proceeds 
category supports at least one of the three commitments outlined above. Additionally, Sustainalytics is of 
the opinion that reporting on targets and performance is indicative of the priority the company assigns to 
achieving results. The alignment of the 2017 Green Bond with Apple’s environmental commitments, its 
setting of targets and reporting on performance, in combination with the fact that Apple has not been 
involved  in  any  significant  environmental  controversies  makes  Apple  well  positioned  to  issue  a  green 
bond.  
 

 

 
 
 
8 2017 Environmental Responsibility Report, covering fiscal year 2016 
https://images.apple.com/environment/pdf/Apple_Environmental_Responsibility_Report_2017.pdf    
9 2017 Environmental Responsibility Report, covering fiscal year 2016  
https://images.apple.com/environment/pdf/Apple_Environmental_Responsibility_Report_2017.pdf      
10  https://images.apple.com/environment/pdf/products/desktops/21.5-inch_iMac_PER_June2017.pdf 
11 https://images.apple.com/environment/pdf/products/iphone/iPhone_7_PER_sept2016.pdf  
 

 

 

10 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Well positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated with the projects 
Given the company’s business and dimension, Apple is exposed to social and environmental risks, both in 
its operations and in its supply chain. To address such risks, Apple has implemented several policies such 
as  the  Code  of  Conduct  and  Apple’s  Environmental,  Health  and  Safety  Policy.  In  addition,  Apple  has 
extensive  Supplier  Responsibility  Standards12 that  set  clear  environmental  and  social  expectations  for 
suppliers. Apple is also a member of the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC), committing to 
strong supplier expectations and releasing a supplier responsibility progress report annually.  
 
In 2016, Apple expanded its responsible sourcing requirements to a much broader set of issues, including 
a more explicit approach to forced and underage labor, health and safety, and environmental impacts 
worldwide. In order to verify compliance with the above-mentioned policies, in 2016, Apple performed 
705 supplier assessments. In its 2017 Supplier Responsibility Progress Report,13 the company discloses the 
results of these assessments and how it addressed situations of non-compliance.  
 
Overall, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Apple has policies and process in place that are comparable 
to other companies in its peer group to identify, address and mitigate relevant social and environmental 
risks associated with the projects that will be financed with green bond proceeds.  
 
Section 2: Impact of Use of Proceeds 
Apple’s  project  eligibility  criteria  address  specific  areas  for  environmental  impact  including  renewable 
energy; green building design, energy and water efficiency; waste management and reuse of materials 
through a closed-loop supply chain; and use of greener materials in its products. These use of proceeds 
categories are recognized by the Green Bond Principles as having a clear environmental impact.14  
 
Compared to the eligibility criteria from Apple’s first green bond, issued in February 2016, in the 2017 
Green Bond, Apple has expanded these project eligibility criteria to apply not only to its own operations, 
but also to directly invest in its supply chain and its suppliers’ facilities, and to its products. Sustainalytics 
is of the opinion that directly investing in its suppliers’ facilities is extremely unusual for any company, 
and that using green bond proceeds to target reduction of Apple’s carbon footprint across its supply chain, 
operations, and products ensures that the company is holistically addressing the environmental impacts 
of its business. 
 
Additionally,  Apple’s  green  building  eligibility criteria is  based  on  third  party  certification  standards  of 
LEED and BREEAM, and the company is aligning with industry best practices by focusing on LEED Gold or 
Platinum,  or  BREEAM  Very  Good,  Excellent,  or  Outstanding,  levels  of  certification.  In  the  offering 
documents related to its 2017 Green Bond, Apple has stated that it will also fund green buildings that 
have achieved other regional green building standards. Apple has  discussed with Sustainalytics that in 
certain cases, municipal code requires green buildings to achieve regional green building standards, rather 
than LEED or BREEAM. For example, in Singapore, all green buildings are required to achieve the Green 

 
12 https://images.apple.com/supplier-responsibility/pdf/Apple-Supplier-Responsible-Standards.pdf 
13 https://images.apple.com/supplier-responsibility/pdf/Apple-Progress-Report-2017.pdf 
14 Reuse of materials through a closed-loop supply chain is aligned with the GBP category of Eco-efficient products, production technologies 
and processes 

 

 

11 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Mark certification. Apple has confirmed to Sustainalytics that in these cases, such regional green building 
standards will be reputable. In addition, Apple has confirmed to Sustainalytics that wherever possible, it 
will strive to fund regionally certified green buildings that have an overall performance that is comparable 
to the LEED and BREEAM levels mentioned in the framework.  
 
With respect to elimination of toxic substances that are commonly used in the industry, Sustainalytics 
believes  that  these  projects  are  likely  to  positively  impact  the  sustainability  of  Apple’s  products,  and 
ensure that the products do not damage the environment.  
 
Environmental Impact of a closed-loop supply chain  
The recent demands from population growth worldwide and economic expansion in developing countries 
have brought attention to the critical issue of depletion of natural resources. The issue can be seen not 
only in their impact on the environment but also in their impact on society, as mining and extraction of 
natural resources can cause conflicts with local communities in some developing countries. Keeping in 
mind  the  above-mentioned  context,  and  a  growing  pressure  from  regulations  and/or  international 
guidelines  such  as  the  United  Nations  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  corporations  face  pressure  to 
review their procurement of resources and develop a strategic plan to mitigate these environmental and 
social risks involved with extraction of finite resources. This issue is especially relevant to the Electronics 
industry, which tends to use natural and scarce resources such as rare-earth metals in their products.  
 
In this context, Apple’s efforts to achieve a closed loop supply chain ultimately aim for the end of the 
company’s reliance on mining through improved recycling and usage of renewable or recycled materials. 
According  to  the  Ellen  McArthur  Foundation’s  report  on  the  circular  economy15,  benefits  of  circular 
business models in the electronics industry include the reduction of toxic chemicals which impair reuse, 
and  the  elimination  of  electronic  waste  through  superior  design.  The  report  states  that  the  cost  of 
remanufacturing mobile phones could be reduced by 50 percent per device if the industry made phones 
easier to take apart, improved the reverse cycle, and offered incentives to return phones. On a global 
scale  the  foundation  estimates  major  net  material  savings  in  the  scenario  of  a  shift  towards  circular 
business models by large industrial players. This net material saving would result in a shift down the cost 
curve for various raw materials, likely reducing demand driven volatility. In Sustainalytics’ view, Apple’s 
use of proceeds, supporting closed loop supply chains, will positively contribute to this vision, reducing 
pollution and waste generation in the electronics industry and greatly contributing to resource efficiency, 
alleviating unsustainable trends in natural resource extraction and consumption.  
 
Furthermore, Sustainalytics’ believes that the reduction of the usage of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, 
all  materials that are  controversial due  to  human rights  concerns in developing countries, could bring 
social benefits in conflict regions where these minerals are extracted.  
 
Overall, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Apple’s project eligibility criteria are credible and robust, and 
that by selecting projects based on these criteria, Apple is effectively targeting its green bond proceeds 
at projects that will contribute to reducing Apple’s overall environmental impact. 

 
15 https://www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/assets/downloads/publications/Ellen-MacArthur-Foundation-Towards-the-
Circular-Economy-vol.1.pdf 

 

 

12 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Alignment with the Green Bond Principles 2016  
Sustainalytics  has  determined  that  the  Apple  Green  Bond  Framework  aligns  to  the  four  pillars  of  the 
International Capital Markets Association (ICMA) Green Bond Principles 2016. For detailed information 
please refer to Annex 2: Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form. 
 
Conclusion  
Apple’s  green  bond  framework  aligns  with  the  four  pillars  of  the  Green  Bond  Principles  2016.  The 
company has established clear project eligibility criteria that are recognized as environmentally impactful 
by the Green Bond Principles, align with its environmental priorities, and support its efforts to reduce its 
overall environmental impact across its supply chain, operations, and products. Sustainalytics is of the 
opinion that this is representative of the company’s holistic efforts to address the environmental impacts 
of its business. Finally, the company’s approach to selecting projects and managing green bond proceeds 
is  robust,  and  its  reporting  on  the  use  of  proceeds,  with  KPIs  that  capture  environmental  impact,  is 
reasonably transparent. Based on the above considerations, Sustainalytics is of the view that Apple’s 2017 
Green Bond is robust and credible. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

13 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Disclaimer 

All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

20 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics  is  an  independent  ESG  and  corporate  governance  research,  ratings  and  analysis  firm 
supporting  investors  around  the  world  with  the  development  and  implementation  of  responsible 
investment  strategies. With 13 offices globally, Sustainalytics partners with institutional investors who 
integrate  environmental,  social  and  governance  information  and  assessments  into  their  investment 
processes.  Today,  the  firm  has  more  than  300  staff  members,  including  170  analysts  with  varied 
multidisciplinary  expertise  of  more  than  40  sectors.  Through  the  IRRI  survey,  investors  selected 
Sustainalytics as the best independent responsible investment research firm for three consecutive years, 
2012 through 2014 and in 2015, Sustainalytics was named among the top three firms for both ESG and 
Corporate Governance research. The firm was also named the Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
Global Capital in 2015. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 
Sustainalytics 
info@sustainalytics.com  
www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

21 

