 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 STATE TREASURY OF THE 

REPUBLIC OF POLAND 

Represented by the Minister of Development and Finance 

GREEN BOND FRAMEWORK 

 

 

SECOND PARTY OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

December 5th, 2016 

Trisha Taneja (Toronto) 
Advisor, Advisory Services 
trisha.taneja@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 647 317 3695 

Charlotte Peyraud (New York)  
Senior Advisor, Institutional Relations 
charlotte.peyraud@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 646 518 0184 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

 

1. 

INTRODUCTION 

2.  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 

Section 1: Contribution of Use of Proceeds to European Union and Polish Energy and Climate 

3 

4 

Change Targets 

4 
5 
6 
7 
7 
8 
9 
9 
Section 3: Alignment of the Poland Green Bond Framework with the Green Bond Principles 2016  10 

Section 2: Impact of Use of Proceeds 
Renewable Energy Eligible Sector 
Afforestation Eligible Sector 
Clean Transportation Eligible Sector 
Sustainable Agriculture Eligible Sector 
National Parks Eligible Sector 
Advancing the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 

APPENDICES 

Appendix 1: Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

12 
12 

19 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

1. INTRODUCTION 
 
The State Treasury of the Republic of Poland represented by the Minister of Development and Finance 
(State Treasury of Poland) has developed a green bond framework in accordance with which it intends to 
issue  green  bonds  that  will  fund  environmentally  beneficial  projects  in  Poland.  This  Green  Bond 
Framework has been published in a separate document.1 The net proceeds of each green bond will be 
used  to  refinance  or  finance,  in whole  or  in  part,  existing  (re-financing)  and  future  projects that  have 
environmental benefits, that promote Poland’s progress in meeting its greenhouse gas (GHG) emission 
reduction  commitments,  and  that  promote  the  country’s  transition  to  a  low-emissions  economy.  The 
green bonds will fund projects in  six  eligible sectors, as defined in the Green Bond Framework. These 
eligible sectors are-  
 

1.  Renewable Energy 
2.  Clean Transportation  
3.  Sustainable Agricultural Operations 
4.  Afforestation 
5.  National Parks 
6.  Reclamation of Heaps 

 
 
The State Treasury of Poland has engaged Sustainalytics to provide a second-party opinion on The State 
Treasury of the Republic of Poland represented by the Minister of Development and Finance Green Bond 
Framework  (Poland  Green  Bond  Framework).  As  part  of  this  engagement  process,  Sustainalytics  held 
conversations with the Ministry of Finance of Poland2. These conversations clarified the use of proceeds, 
management  of  proceeds  and  reporting  aspects  of  the  Poland  Green  Bond  Framework  as  well  as  the 
environmental  and  climate  change  targets  of  Poland.  Sustainalytics  also  reviewed  relevant  public 
documents  and  non-public  documents  relating  to  the  eligible  projects  under  the  Poland  Green  Bond 
Framework  to  provide  its  opinion  on  the  Poland  Green  Bond  Framework.  This  document  contains 
Sustainalytics’ opinion on the Poland Green Bond Framework and should be read in conjunction with that 
Framework. 
 

 

 
1 The State Treasury of the Republic of Poland represented by the Minister of Development and Finance Green Bond Framework is publically 

available on website: http://www.finanse.mf.gov.pl/en/web/wp/public-debt/international-bonds/issuance-procedures. 

2 Sustainalytics held conversations with the Ministry of Finance as a representative of the State Treasury of the Republic of Poland.  

3 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

2. SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
 
The following section details Sustainalytics’ opinion on the Poland Green Bond Framework, and discusses 
contribution of the use of proceeds to Polish and European climate change targets, environmental impact 
of  the  eligible  sectors,  and  alignment  of  the  Poland  Green  Bond  Framework  with  the  Green  Bond 
Principles 2016.  
 
Section 1: Contribution of Use of Proceeds to European Union and Polish Energy 
and Climate Change Targets 
 
Sustainalytics has reviewed Poland’s climate change strategy and is of the opinion that, as a member of 
the European Union (EU), Poland is committed to reducing its GHG emissions in line with the below 2°C 
objective outlined in the  Paris Agreement  in December 2015.  As a member state of the  EU, Poland is 
committed to the Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC) of the EU. The EU INDC commits 
all member states of the EU to a collective binding target of 40% reduction in GHG emissions by 2030, as 
compared to 1990.3  
 
To achieve the binding emission reduction commitments, the European Parliament and the Council have 
set in place a directive for all member states (Directive 2009/28/EC) on the promotion of the use of energy 
from  renewable  sources.  To  fulfill  its  obligations  under  this  directive,  Poland  established  its  National 
Renewable Energy Action Plan (NREAP) in 2010.4 The NREAP sets a national binding target for Poland to 
increase the share of renewable energy sources in final energy consumption to at least 15% by 2020. The 
NREAP  outlines specific measures  that the country is implementing to achieve this target.  As of 2011, 
Poland  had  established  the  percent  of  renewable  energy  sources  in  its  final  energy  consumption  at 
roughly 10%5, demonstrating progress towards its target of 15% by 2020. 
 
Poland’s NREAP also includes a target to build a 10% share of biofuels in the market for transport fuels by 
2020. The NREAP specifies maximizing its  use of waste biomass to achieve this target  in a sustainable 
manner. In the context of this target, the NREAP also includes an explicit objective to sustainably manage 
forests and agricultural areas in order to obtain waste biomass for renewable energy use.  
 
In addition to increasing its share of energy from renewable sources to meet its obligation to the collective 
European  GHG  emissions  reduction  target,  Poland  is  also  well  positioned  to  reduce  GHG  emissions 
through  the  creation  of  carbon  sinks.  Poland’s  National  Programme  for  the  Augmentation  of  Forest 
Cover6, aims to increase  forest cover to 30%  by 2020 and to 33%  by 2050.7  Given that  the amount of 
carbon dioxide (CO2) absorbed every year by forests (including soil and taking into account utilisation) is 

 
3 http://www4.unfccc.int/Submissions/INDC/Published%20Documents/Latvia/1/LV-03-06-EU%20INDC.pdf. 
4 http://www.iea.org/policiesandmeasures/pams/poland/name-25100-en.php. 
5 http://www.lse.ac.uk/GranthamInstitute/legislation/countries/poland/. 
6 The National Programme for the Augmentation of Forest Cover was prepared by the Forest Research Institute and recommended for 

implementation by the Council of Ministers in 1995. This programme was also modified in 2002.  

7 http://www.lasy.gov.pl/informacje/publikacje/in-english/forests-in-poland/forests-in-poland-2015. 

 
 

4 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

estimated  at  39.5  million  tonnes  (roughly  equivalent  to  10.8  million  tonnes  of  carbon)8,  Poland’s 
afforestation targets can play a significant role in meeting its GHG emissions reduction target. 
 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that being subject to a concrete, time bound, and binding European target 
for reduction of GHG emissions, and formalizing that target through a national policy and corresponding 
national targets, is indicative of the priority Poland assigns to achieving its climate change mitigation goals. 
The  Poland  Green  Bond  Framework  (particularly  the  sectors  of  Renewable  Energy,  Afforestation,  and 
Clean Transportation) clearly contributes to achieving Poland’s national and European targets.  
 
Given Poland’s national and European targets, the country’s demonstrated progress towards the target 
established by its NREAP, and alignment of the Poland Green Bond Framework to support future progress 
towards these targets, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the issuance of green bonds under the Poland 
Green  Bond  Framework  is  a  step  that  will  help  Poland  achieve  its  objective  of  transitioning  to  a  low-
emissions economy.   
 
Section 2: Impact of Use of Proceeds 
 
The Poland Green Bond Framework defines eligible projects in the following Eligible Sectors:  
 

1.  Renewable Energy 
2.  Clean Transportation  
3.  Sustainable Agricultural Operations 
4.  Afforestation 
5.  National Parks 
6.  Reclamation of Heaps 

 
Overall,  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  proceeds  from  the  bond  will  have  clear  positive 
environmental  impacts  and  contribute  to  achieving  Poland’s  environmental  targets  to  (i)  reduce  GHG 
emissions as a member country of the EU, and (ii) increase its share of energy derived from renewable 
sources.  
 
Below, Sustainalytics has provided an opinion on the Framework criteria in the following Eligible Sectors:  
Renewable Energy, Clean Transportation, Sustainable Agricultural Operations, Afforestation, and National 
Parks.  
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
8 http://www.lasy.gov.pl/informacje/publikacje/in-english/forests-in-poland/forests-in-poland-2015 . 

 
 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Renewable Energy Eligible Sector 
The importance of promoting renewable energy use in Poland 
The energy sector (including both supply and demand of energy) is the largest source of GHG emissions 
in  Poland,  accounting  for 80.6%  of  the  country’s  GHG  emissions  in 2012.9  A  key  reason  for  this  is  the 
carbon intensity of Poland’s energy mix; in 2011, coal accounted for 55% of Polish primary energy supply 
and 92% of electricity generation.10 In the context of this high usage of coal and obligations to meet the 
European  GHG  emissions  reduction  target,  efforts  to  diversify  Poland’s  energy  mix  and  promote  the 
sustained use of renewable sources through the NREAP are particularly important.  
 
In addition, Poland also has tremendous potential to increase its percent of renewable energy sources in 
final energy consumption beyond the established target. For example, Poland’s technical potential for 
installed renewable energy capacity (including from biomass, solar, wind, and small hydro) is estimated 
at 940,100 MW11. Of this, Poland has achieved 8,241 MW (as of June 2016),12 leaving significant untapped 
potential with respect to the use of energy from renewable sources.  
 
Given the need to sustainably diversify Poland’s energy mix while contributing to European and national 
GHG  emissions  reduction  targets,  and  Poland’s  significant  untapped  potential  for  installed  renewable 
energy  capacity,  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  adoption  of  renewable  energy  is  a  highly 
important issue for Poland. The State Treasury of Poland’s effort to promote the use of renewable energy 
through its Green Bond Framework is a clear step in the right direction.  
 
The use of biomass as a renewable energy source in Poland 
Given the context of Poland’s target to build a 10% share of biofuels in the market by 2020, Sustainalytics 
is of the opinion that generating energy from biomass is an important objective for the country to meet 
its renewable energy targets.  
 
Sustainalytics recognizes that the burning of viable biological material poses an environmental risk in the 
use of biomass as a renewable energy source, as it may have greater negative than positive environmental 
impact. However, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Poland is well positioned to mitigate this risk, as its 
NREAP specifies a reference to maximizing the use of waste biomass. Additionally, the State Treasury of 
Poland has assured Sustainalytics that proceeds from all green bonds issued under this framework will 
only be directed towards projects that use waste biomass for energy generation.  
 
Sustainalytics also recognizes that biomass in Poland has been used extensively as a co-generator in coal 
power plants. The use of biomass as a co-generator of energy in coal power plants has been criticized as 
prolonging the country’s reliance on coal, and contributing to GHG emissions from coal power plants. The 
State Treasury of Poland has assured Sustainalytics that no proceeds from any green bonds issued under 
this framework will be directed towards using biomass for cogeneration in coal power plants.  

 
9 https://unfccc.int/files/ghg_emissions_data/application/pdf/pol_ghg_profile.pdf  
10 https://www.iea.org/countries/membercountries/poland/ ; 

http://www.iea.org/publications/freepublications/publication/Poland2011_web.pdf  

11 http://www.eurasia.undp.org/content/dam/rbec/docs/Poland.pdf. 
12 https://www.ure.gov.pl/download/1/7982/daneOZEmocwww.pdf. 

 
 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Afforestation Eligible Sector 
The importance of afforestation in achieving European GHG emission reduction targets 
The INDC submitted by the EU specifies that the one of the ways the collective emissions reduction target 
will  be  reached  is  by  reducing  emissions  from  the  Land  Use,  Land  Use  Change  and  Forestry  (LULUCF) 
sectors.13 Afforestation and maintaining forests can play a significant role in reducing GHG emissions as 
forests  can  act  as  carbon  sinks  to  absorb  carbon  dioxide  (CO2)  from  the  atmosphere.  In  general,  the 
amount  of  CO2  absorbed  every  year  by  forests  (including  soil  and  taking  into  account  utilisation)  is 
estimated at 39.5 million tonnes (roughly equivalent to 10.8 million tonnes of carbon).14 
 
Specifically, in Poland, the LULUCF sector plays an important role in reducing CO2 emissions. For example, 
in  2012,  the  LULUCF  sector  was  responsible  for  decreasing  Poland’s  CO2  emissions  by  roughly  10%, 
removing 34, 672 Gg of CO2 equivalent from the atmosphere through absorption.15 
 
Poland’s National Programme for the Augmentation of Forest Cover16 aims to increase forest cover to 30% 
by 2020 and to 33% by 2050.17 Given the role of forests in removing CO2 from the atmosphere through 
absorption,  Poland’s  afforestation  targets  will  play  a  significant  role  in  meeting  its  GHG  emissions 
reduction target. In this context, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that afforestation clearly has an important 
role in reducing GHG emissions in Poland, and projects under this eligibility criterion will help to achieve 
Poland’s afforestation and Poland (and European) emission reduction targets.  
 
Clean Transportation Eligible Sector 
Financing passenger and/or mass transit rail projects has the clear environmental impact of reducing GHG 
emissions by reducing the number of cars in use. Using bond proceeds to finance rail infrastructure that 
will be used for passenger and/or mass transit will encourage the reduction in use of cars. Sustainalytics 
recognizes  that  some  rail  infrastructure  funded  through  bond  proceeds  may  also  be  used  for  freight 
transportation, as The State Treasury of Poland  is unable to specify whether only passenger or freight 
trains (or both) will operate on funded rail infrastructure.  
 
However, The State Treasury of Poland has confirmed to Sustainalytics that all rail lines and associated 
rail  infrastructure  exclusively  for  use  by  freight  transport  trains  will  not  be  funded  through  any  green 
bonds issued under this framework. Additionally, The State Treasury of Poland has also confirmed that no 
rail  lines  or  rail  infrastructure  funded  under  this  eligible  sector  will  be  dedicated  for  the  exclusive 
transportation of fossil fuels. While the exact contents of freight transportation on the rail networks will 
not always be known to the  State Treasury of Poland, the use of railway lines for passenger transport 
ensures  that  the  positive  impact  of  reduction  in  GHG  emissions  through  a  reduction  in  cars  in  use  is 
captured by funding eligible projects under this sector, and that the environmental risk associated with 
the exclusive transportation of fossil fuels is mitigated.  
 

 
13 http://www4.unfccc.int/Submissions/INDC/Published%20Documents/Latvia/1/LV-03-06-EU%20INDC.pdf. 
14 http://www.lasy.gov.pl/informacje/publikacje/in-english/forests-in-poland/forests-in-poland-2015. 
15 https://unfccc.int/files/ghg_emissions_data/application/pdf/pol_ghg_profile.pdf. 
16 The National Programme for the Augmentation of Forest Cover was prepared by the Forest Research Institute and recommended for 

implementation by the Council of Ministers in 1995. This programme was also modified in 2002.  

17 http://www.lasy.gov.pl/informacje/publikacje/in-english/forests-in-poland/forests-in-poland-2015. 

7 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Additionally, The State Treasury of Poland has also confirmed that all rail lines funded under this eligibility 
sector  will  be  existing  rather  than  new  build  projects,  eliminating  the  environmental  and  social  risks 
associated with construction of new infrastructure.  
 
The State Treasury of Poland has also confirmed that their existing rail transportation system includes 
approximately 60% electrified railway lines and 40% diesel train based railway lines. For the first green 
bond issued under this framework, proceeds will be used for electrification of diesel train based railway 
lines, and modernization of railway lines to increase access to roads and capacity of lines.  Proceeds from 
green  bonds  issued  under  this  framework  will  also  be  used  to  finance  electric  rolling  stock.  This 
electrification of rail infrastructure and financing of electric rolling stock will have the clear environmental 
impact of reducing GHG emissions through reducing use of fossil fuels. The State Treasury of Poland has 
assured  Sustainalytics  that  no  proceeds  from  any  green  bonds  issued  under  this  framework  will  be 
directed towards transportation activities that consume fossil fuels.   
 
Overall,  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  proceeds  under  this  eligibility  criterion  will  have  clear 
environmental  impact  by  increasing  the  use  of  passenger/mass  transit  and  thereby  reducing  GHG 
emissions from cars, and by reducing GHG emissions through reducing the use of fossil fuels.  
   
Sustainable Agriculture Eligible Sector 
The need for government funding for organic farming in Poland 
As  per  the  United  Nations  Food  and  Agriculture  Organisation  (FAO),  organic  farming  has  the 
environmental  impacts  of  improving  soil  quality  and  improving  the  quality  of  ground  water.18  Using 
synthetic  pesticides  and  fertilizers,  as  is  common  in  agriculture,  often  results  in  the  run  off  of  these 
chemicals  into  ground  water,  and  consequently  the  pollution  of  groundwater.  In  organic  farming, 
chemical-based  fertilizers  and  pesticides  are  replaced  with  biological  fertilizers  such  as  compost  and 
animal manure. This significantly reduces the risk of ground water pollution; in fact, organic farming can 
be  prescribed  as  restorative  measure  to  reduce  groundwater  pollution.19  Additionally,  sustainable 
agricultural and soil building practices  such as minimum tillage,  inter-cropping, and crop rotations  are 
commonly used in organic farming. Such practices improve the build-up of soil flora and fauna, and soil 
structure. Overall, the use of such practices creates more stable biological systems in soil and improves 
soil quality.20 
 
The  State  Treasury  of Poland  has  confirmed  that there  are  26,000 organic  farms  in Poland.  The  State 
Treasury  has  also  confirmed  that  90%  of  these  farms  receive  government  subsidies.  Given  the 
environmental impact of organic farming as outlined by the UN FAO, and the context of organic farms 
being heavily dependent on government funding, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that proceeds allocated 
to this eligibility criterion will create environmental impact where there is absence of alternative funding.  
 

 
18  http://www.fao.org/organicag/oa-faq/oa-faq6/en/. 
19  http://www.fao.org/organicag/oa-faq/oa-faq6/en/. 
20 http://www.fao.org/organicag/oa-faq/oa-faq6/en/. 

 
 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

National Parks Eligible Sector 
The importance of National Parks for Poland’s international/national obligations on biodiversity 
Poland is a signatory to the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD)21, and as a member state of the EU is 
also  obligated  to  meet  EU  targets  on  biodiversity  set  in  the  EU  biodiversity  plan.22  In  line  with  these 
commitments, Poland maintains a national biodiversity strategy and action plan, and regularly discloses 
progress reports on meeting its CBD and EU biodiversity protection targets.23  
 
In the Polish Act of Nature Conservation, National Parks are defined as “covering an area of outstanding 
value for the environmental, scientific, social, cultural and educational [benefit], with an area of not less 
than 1000 hectares, which is subject to the protection of all nature and landscape values.” In its progress 
report  on  the  implementation  of the  CBD,  National Parks  in Poland are  confirmed as  being  protected 
areas.24  Using  green  bond  proceeds  to  manage  National  Parks  has  a  clear  environmental  impact  of 
protecting biodiversity, and also contributes to meeting Poland’s national and international commitments 
in this area.  
 
Additionally,  Sustainalytics  recognizes  that  education  and  environmental  awareness  activities  are 
specifically mandated by Poland’s Environmental Protection Act (EPA). The State Treasury of Poland has 
assured  Sustainalytics  that  green  bond  proceeds  allocated  to  this  eligibility  criterion  will  be  directed 
towards  including  topics  of  environmental  awareness  and  protection  in  school  curriculums.  In  this 
context, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that such educational activities will have an impact on protecting 
biodiversity through creating increased awareness.  
 
Overall, Sustainalytics is of the opinion funding the management of national parks through bond proceeds 
will result in the protection of biodiversity, and contribute to Poland meeting its national and international 
obligations in this area.  
 
Advancing the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
The  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  were  set  in  September  2015  through  a  multi-stakeholder 
partnership, and form an agenda for achieving sustainable development by the year 2030. These goals 
are widely considered to be the next step to the Millennium Development Goals (MDG), which were time-
bound  to  2015.  Unlike  the  MDG’s,  the  SDGs  emphasize  the  elimination  of  inequality  and  disparity  in 
opportunity globally, in both developed and developing countries. Poland’s Green Bond Framework aligns 
with SDGs 7, 13, and 15, as described below.  
 
Alignment with SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy  
In particular, SDG 7 ‘Affordable and Clean Energy’ has targets associated with increasing substantially the 
share of renewable energy in the global energy mix, and ensuring universal access to affordable, reliable, 
and  modern  energy  services.  By  using  green  bond  proceeds  to  finance  projects  under  the  Renewable 

 
21 https://www.cbd.int/countries/?country=pl. 
22 http://ec.europa.eu/environment/nature/biodiversity/comm2006/pdf/profiles/pl.pdf. 
23 https://www.cbd.int/doc/world/pl/pl-nr-05-en.pdf ; 

http://ec.europa.eu/environment/nature/biodiversity/comm2006/pdf/profiles/pl.pdf. 

24 https://www.cbd.int/doc/world/pl/pl-nr-05-en.pdf. 

9 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Energy eligibility criterion, The State Treasury of the Republic of Poland is advancing the abovementioned 
targets of SDG 7.  
 
Alignment with SDG 13: Climate Action  
SDG  13  includes  a  target  that  specifies  integrating  climate  change  measures  into  national  policies, 
strategies,  and  planning.  By  using  green  bond  proceeds  to  fund  renewable  energy  and  afforestation 
projects that contribute to Poland’s NREAP and EU emission reduction targets, The State Treasury of the 
Republic of Poland is advancing the abovementioned target of SDG 13.  
 
Alignment with SDG 15: Life on Land 
 SDG 15 has targets that specify substantially increasing afforestation and reforestation, and that specify 
the  reduction  in  degradation  of  natural  habitats  and  halt  in  loss  of  biodiversity.  By  using  green  bond 
proceeds to fund projects under the Afforestation and National Parks eligibility criteria, The State Treasury 
of Poland is advancing the abovementioned targets of SDG 15.  
 
Section 3: Alignment of the Poland Green Bond Framework with the Green 
Bond Principles 2016 
 
Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  Poland  Green  Bond  Framework  is  robust,  credible,  and 
transparent. The commitment of The State Treasury of Poland to disclose the relevant eligible sector (and 
specific projects if possible) for each green bond issued at the time of (or prior to) issuance,25 in addition 
to its annual reporting commitment, will allow for transparent disclosure of intended impact of each green 
bond issued under the Poland Green Bond Framework.  
 
Additionally, the crediting of proceeds to a separate account allows for clear segregation and tracking of 
green  bond  proceeds.  The  State  Treasury  of  Poland  has  also  explicitly  addressed  the  risk  of  double 
counting by committing to reconcile allocation to eligible sectors with its annual budget review. The State 
Treasury of Republic of Poland has assured Sustainalytics that the budget will not allow for listing of the 
same project twice, so reconciliation to budget will prevent double counting and funding of same project 
twice.  This  approach  ensures  the  creation  of  additionality  with  each  green  bond  issued  under  this 
framework.  
 
The State Treasury of Poland’s commitment to reporting annually (or until full allocation of proceeds) on 
allocation of proceeds, examples of eligible Green Projects, and balance of unallocated proceeds is in line 
with industry norms. The State Treasury of Poland has also committed to disclosing environmental and 
social impact of funded projects, when feasible, and to issue an attestation that confirms that proceeds 
of all green bonds issued under this framework are used in conformance with the framework. Given the 
public nature of the issuer, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that reporting for this framework is transparent. 
 

 
25 Such disclosure will be made only if project review and evaluation has been completed and the allocation of proceeds has been determined 

in advance of issuance (refer to Poland Green Bond Framework document). 

10 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Sustainalytics has determined that the Poland Green Bond Framework aligns to the four pillars of the 
Green Bond Principles 2016. For detailed information please refer to Appendix 1: Green Bond/Green 
Bond Programme External Review Form. 
 
Conclusion 
Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  The  State  Treasury  of  the  Republic  of  Poland  represented  by  the 
Minister  of  Development  and  Finance  Green  Bond  Framework  (Poland  Green  Bond  Framework)  will 
contribute to achieving Polish and European GHG emission reduction targets, and will also contribute to 
advancing the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Sustainalytics has determined that the Poland Green 
Bond Framework is aligned with the four pillars of the Green Bond Principles 2016, and is transparent, 
robust, and credible.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

11 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

DISCLAIMER 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

18 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics is the largest independent provider of sustainability 
research, analysis, and services to investors. We serve over 250 
institutional investors which include some of the world's largest asset 
owners and asset managers. Through over 20 years of experience 
serving the responsible investment (RI) market, we have gained a 
reputation for providing high-quality ESG research solutions and 
excellent client service. 

Sustainalytics is headed by seasoned professionals in the field of 
business, finance, and sustainability, with a wealth of experience in the 
Responsible Investment area. After more than 20 years of local 
experience and expertise in the Responsible Investment (RI) market 
Sustainalytics has developed a comprehensive understanding of trends 
and best practices and a solid process to assist organisations in 
integrating ESG considerations into their policies and strategies. We 
have worked with some of the world’s financial institutions including 
pension plans, investment managers and banks providing customised 
support to help them achieve their RI objectives. Clients include ABN 
AMRO, APG, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank, ING Bank, Lombard 
Odier, Lloyds Bank, Triodos Bank, UBS and over 250 other financial 
institutions and organisations. 

Sustainalytics now has a staff of 250 employees globally, including over 
120 analysts, with operations in Amsterdam, Boston, Bucharest, 
Frankfurt, New York, Paris, London, Singapore, Sydney, Timisoara, and 
Toronto, and representation in Brussels and Washington DC. 

In 2015, Sustainalytics was named the Best 
SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
GlobalCapital. In December 2014, for the 
third year in a row, Sustainalytics was 
named best sustainable and responsible 
investment research firm in the 
Independent Research in Responsible 
Investment (IRRI) Survey, conducted by 
Thomson Reuters and SRI-CONNECT.  

 
 

19 

