 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 DBS GREEN BOND 

FRAMEWORK 

 

 
 
FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY 
 

 

 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

July 13, 2017 

 

 
 

 
 
 

Catalina Secreteanu (Sydney) 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 

Associate Director, Institutional Relations 

catalina.secreteanu@sustainalytics.com 

(+61) 2 8015 5651  

  
 

Vikram Puppala  

Manager,  

Charlotte Peyraud (New York) 

Senior Associate, Institutional Relations 

charlotte.peyraud@sustainalytics.com 

(+1) 646 518 0184 
 

Vikram Puppala  

Manager,  

Advisory Services (Toronto) 

Trisha Taneja (Toronto) 

Associate, Advisory Services 
trisha.taneja@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 647 317 3695 

  

 
 

Vikram Puppala  

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

1. 

Introduction 

2.  Overview of Issuer 

3.  Framework overview 
3.1  Use of Proceeds 
3.2 Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
3.3 Management of Proceeds 
3.4 Reporting 

4  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 

Section 1: Sustainability Performance of the Issuer 
Section 2: Impact of Use of Proceeds 
Section 3: Sustainalytics Opinion on the DBS Green Bond Framework 
Conclusion 

APPENDICES 

Appendix 1: Comparison of Real Estate Certification Schemes 
Appendix 2: Green Bond Programme External Review Form 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

1 

3 

3 

4 
4 
6 
7 
7 

9 
9 
10 
11 
12 

13 
13 
15 

22 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

1. INTRODUCTION 
 
DBS (comprising DBS Group Holdings Ltd and its subsidiaries) has developed a Green Bond Framework 
(Framework) under which it is considering to issue multiple green bonds. DBS has engaged Sustainalytics 
to provide a second opinion on the Framework and the Framework’s environmental credentials. As part 
of this engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of DBS’ management team 
to understand the sustainability impact of DBS’ business processes and the planned use of proceeds under 
the  Framework.  Sustainalytics  also  reviewed  relevant  public  and  internal  documents.  This  document 
contains  two  sections:  Framework  Overview  –  summary  of  DBS  Green  Bond  Framework;  and 
Sustainalytics’ Opinion – an opinion on the Framework. 
 
 
2. OVERVIEW OF ISSUER 
 
DBS is a financial services group in Asia, with over 280 branches across 18 markets. Headquartered and 
listed in Singapore, DBS has a growing presence in the three key Asian axes of growth: Greater China, 
Southeast  Asia  and  South  Asia.  The  Group  provides  a  full  range  of  services  in  consumer,  SME  and 
corporate banking. 
 
DBS states that it has a sustainability strategy that spans its entire value chain. As disclosed in its 2016 
Annual  Report1,  the  Group  has  enhanced  its  responsible  lending  policies,  integrated  climate  change 
considerations into its strategy and engaged local and international stakeholders to advance sustainability 
and  climate  change  reporting.  Its  sustainability  strategy  is  composed  of  four  pillars2:  (1)  Responsible 
Banking; (2) Responsible Corporate Citizenship; (3) Creating Social Impact; and (4) being an Employer of 
Choice.  As  per  its  website,  DBS  also  states  that  it  has  chosen  to  focus  on  four  specific  Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs)3 – SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy, SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic 
Growth, SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Production, and SDG 13: Climate Action.  According to 
DBS,  this  focus  takes  into  account  DBS’  unique  heritage,  strategy,  the  markets  it  operates  in  and  its 
businesses. 
 
To  further  its  four-pronged  sustainability  strategy,  and  its  commitment  to  advancing  the  SDGs,  DBS  is 
planning to issue green bonds to finance environmentally impactful assets and projects across the markets 
it operates in. 
 
 
 
 

 
1 https://www.dbs.com/annualreports/2016/pdf/dbs_annual_report_2016.pdf  
2 https://www.dbs.com/sustainability/default.page  
3 https://www.dbs.com/sustainability/overview/us-sustainable-development-goals/default.page  

 
 

3 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

3. FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 
The Framework sets out the guidelines for DBS’ Green Bond issuances in accordance with the four core 
components of the Green Bond Principles (GBP)4 issued by the International Capital Market Association 
(ICMA):  use  of  proceeds;  process  for  project  evaluation  and  selection;  management  of  proceeds;  and 
reporting. 
 
3.1  Use of Proceeds 
The proceeds from DBS’ Green Bond issuances (Proceeds) will be used to finance or refinance new or 
existing green assets/projects which meet the criteria outlined below (Eligibility Criteria). Where relevant, 
the Proceeds may also be used to finance companies that derive 90% or more of their revenues from 
green assets/projects which meet the Eligibility Criteria. 
 
Eligibility Criteria  

1.  GREEN BUILDINGS 

a.  Purchase, construction or renovation of commercial and residential buildings that meet 
recognised standards, such as Singapore Building and Construction Authority (BCA) Green 
Mark  (Gold Plus  and  above),  Hong Kong  BEAM Plus (Gold  and  above),  LEED (Gold and 
above), or China Three Star Green Building Evaluation Standard (Three Star rating). 
  

2.  SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORTATION 
a.  Public Transportation: 

i.  Operation  of  low-emission  mass  transportation  systems  such  as  rail,  metros, 

trams, cable cars, electric/hybrid buses, and bicycle schemes. 

ii.  Production  of  public  transport  vehicles,  such  as  buses,  passenger  trains,  and 

ferries. 

iii.  Development of infrastructure for mass transportation, such as railway lines and 
electric lines. This also includes development of supporting infrastructure such as 
signalling  and  communication  technologies,  as  well  as  general  information 
technology upgrades. 

b.  Clean, private, light-duty vehicles: 

i.  Production and distribution of clean or environmentally-friendly vehicles. 
ii.  Purchase of clean vehicles by consumers. 

c.  Clean, private, electric or hybrid heavy-goods vehicles: 

i.  Production of clean or environmentally-friendly vehicles.  
ii.  Purchase of clean vehicles by consumers. 

 
Clean vehicles are electric and hybrid vehicles that have been classified as A1 or A2 
under the Vehicular Emissions Scheme (VES) as determined by the Land Transport 
Authority of Singapore (or such other equivalent ratings in other countries). 

 
 

 
4 https://www.icmagroup.org/assets/documents/Regulatory/Green-Bonds/GreenBondsBrochure-JUNE2017.pdf  

4 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

3.  RENEWABLE ENERGY 

a.  Construction and operation of wind and solar infrastructure. 
b.  Production of components destined for wind and solar projects. 
c.  Purchase of wind and solar energy products by consumers. 
d.  Construction and operation of run-of-river hydro projects <25 MW. 
e.  Construction, production, operation and consumer purchase of other generally accepted 
sources  of  renewable  energy  as  recognised  by  the  International  Renewable  Energy 
Agency (IRENA)5. 
 

4.  ENERGY EFFICIENCY 

a.  Development and production of products or technologies that reduce industrial energy 
consumption,  such  as  improved  chillers,  improved  lighting  technology  and  enhanced 
battery capacity. 

b.  Purchase and installation of such products or technologies by consumers. 

 

5.  WASTE MANAGEMENT 

a.  Construction,  operation  or  upgrade  of  recycling 

infrastructure, 

including  waste 

minimisation, filtering, management, recycling and reuse. 

b.  Construction,  operation  or  upgrade  of  waste-to-energy  power  plants  that  use 

environmentally-friendly technologies, such as methane capturing. 

 

6.  CLIMATE CHANGE ADAPTATION 

a.  Development,  production  and  purchase/installation  of  products  or  technologies  that 
enable  adaptation  to  climate  change,  including  information  support  systems  such  as 
climate observation and early warning systems. 

b.  Construction, investment or operation of adaptation related-projects that contribute to 

a reduction in vulnerability to climate change. 

 
The Proceeds may also be used to fund the following eligible assets/projects within DBS’ own operations: 
 

  RENEWABLE ENERGY - Installation of solar panels or other renewable energy equipment. 
  ENERGY  EFFICIENCY-  Purchase  and  installation  of  products  or  technologies  that  reduce  energy 

consumption, such as improved lighting technology and enhanced battery capacity. 

  WASTE  MANAGEMENT-  Purchase  and  installation  of  recycling  infrastructure,  including  waste 

minimisation, filtering, management, recycling and reuse. 

 
 

 

 
5 http://www.irena.org 

 
 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Exclusionary Criteria 
DBS has developed a list of exclusionary criteria on the use of the Proceeds. In this regard, DBS commits 
to  not  knowingly  using  the  Proceeds  for  the  financing  of  assets/projects  included  in  the  exclusionary 
criteria. 
 

1.  Large scale hydro projects (i.e. projects that generate greater than 25 MW of electricity) 
2.  Transmission infrastructure or systems where 25% or more of electricity transmitted to the grid 

is generated using fossil fuels 

3.  Nuclear energy technology, equipment or infrastructure 
4.  Agricultural or afforestation operations located on land designated as primary forest, high 

conservation value areas, or legally preserved areas 

5.  Payday loans and predatory lending activities 
6.  Production or distribution of adult entertainment  
7.  Manufacture of alcohol or wholesale of alcoholic beverages  
8.  Manufacture or wholesale of tobacco products  
9.  Ownership or operation of gambling establishments/activities 
10. Manufacture or retail sale and distribution of weapons and small arms; or the production of 
products and services supporting the manufacture or retail sale of weapons and small arms 

11. Extraction, refining, or transportation of fossil fuels 
12. Production or refining of palm oil 

 
3.2 Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
Environmental Sustainability Objectives 
DBS manages sustainability along four pillars6: 1) Responsible Banking; 2) Responsible Corporate 
Citizenship; 3) Creating Social Impact; and 4) Employer of Choice.  
  
Within these pillars, DBS has chosen to focus on four SDGs where DBS believes it can make the most 
impactful contributions, taking into account its heritage, strategy, the markets it operates in and its 
businesses. They are:  

  SDG 7 – Affordable and Clean Energy 
  SDG 8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth 
  SDG 12 – Responsible Consumption and Production 
  SDG 13 – Climate Action. 

 
The project evaluation and selection process is guided by DBS’ focus on “Responsible Banking”, which is 
one of the four pillars anchoring their sustainability strategy, and is designed to contribute to SDGs 7 
and 13. 
 
 
 

 
6 https://www.dbs.com/sustainability/default.page 

 
 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Application of Eligibility and Exclusionary Criteria in Project Selection  
DBS has developed a two-step approach to project evaluation and selection: 

1.  Relevant business units are responsible for the screening and selection of assets or projects using 

the Eligibility Criteria and exclusionary criteria, as part of the credit evaluation process; and 

2.  The DBS Sustainability Council7 is responsible for the review and approval of the assets or 

projects proposed by the relevant business units to ensure compliance with the Framework.  

(ESG)  risks  as  part  of  the  credit  evaluation  process.  For  more 

 
Process to Mitigate Environmental and Social Risks Stemming from Eligible Projects 
The  DBS  Responsible  Financing  Standard  sets  out  DBS’  overarching  approach  to  responsible  financing  and 
provides  structured  and  detailed  guidance  to  identify  and  assess  potential  environmental,  social  and 
governance 
information,  see 
https://www.dbs.com/sustainability/responsible-banking/responsible-financing/default.page.  
 
3.3 Management of Proceeds  
The  Proceeds will be  allocated by DBS to finance  designated  eligible green  assets/projects  across DBS 
(Pool),  selected  in  accordance  with  the  Eligibility  Criteria  and  exclusionary  criteria,  and  using  the 
evaluation and selection process mentioned above. DBS will monitor the allocation of the Proceeds and 
the  Pool  via  internal  information  systems.  A  register  will  be  created  to  facilitate  the  monitoring  and 
reporting of the issued Green Bonds and the Pool.  
 
DBS intends to designate sufficient green assets or projects into the Pool to ensure that its outstanding 
balance always exceeds the Proceeds. For each new Green Bond issuance, where necessary, additional 
eligible green assets or projects will be added to the Pool to ensure sufficient and timely allocation of the 
incremental net proceeds. Where the allocation of the Proceeds is pending due to there being insufficient 
assets in the Pool, DBS may deploy the Proceeds at its own discretion in cash or high-quality marketable 
instruments in accordance with its liquidity management strategy in the interim.  
 
During the life of the issued Green Bonds, if the designated assets or projects cease to fulfil the Eligibility 
Criteria, DBS will use its best efforts to find and allocate the Proceeds to replacement assets or projects 
that comply with the Eligibility Criteria as soon as reasonably practicable. 
 
3.4 Reporting  
Allocation Reporting 
As long as there are outstanding Green Bonds issued under this Framework, DBS will publish a report on 
an annual basis on its website that includes, at the minimum, the following information:  

1.  Allocated Proceeds by eligibility criterion, together with a description of the types of projects or 

businesses that are being financed; and 

2.  The remaining balance of unallocated Proceeds at the end of the reporting period. 

 

 
7 The DBS Sustainability Council comprises senior leaders across business and support units, including Finance, Technology and Operations, 
Treasury and Markets, Institutional Banking, Consumer Banking, Risk Management , Group Strategic Marketing and Communications and DBS 
Foundation/. For more information, see https://www.dbs.com/sustainability/overview/sustainability-governance/default.page 

7 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Where  possible,  DBS  will  also  provide  additional  information,  case  studies  or  examples  of  financed 
projects  or  businesses,  subject  to  considerations  such  as  confidentiality  agreements  and  competition 
issues.  
 
The annual reporting will be reviewed and approved by the DBS Sustainability Council. Furthermore, DBS 
intends to engage an external auditor to provide independent verification and assurance on its reporting 
and management of Proceeds in accordance with the Framework. 
 
Impact Reporting  
Where relevant and possible, DBS will also report on selected impact metrics (per project or in aggregate 
for all projects financed by the Proceeds), as outlined in Table 1 below. 
 
Table 1 

Eligibility Criteria 
Renewable energy 

Energy efficiency 

Certified real estate 

Example Impact Metric 

kWh of power generated from renewable energy 

 
  Tonnes of carbon dioxide (CO2) equivalent avoided 
  Energy saved per year (kWh/year) 
  Percentage energy efficiency achieved 
  Energy consumption reduced per square foot 
 

List of eligible buildings that received third party-verified green 
building certification  

Public transport 

  Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions savings/tonnes of CO2 

equivalent avoided 

 

8 

 

 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

4  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
 
Section 1: Sustainability Performance of the Issuer 
 
Alignment of the DBS Green Bond Framework to DBS’ sustainability strategy and the SDGs 
DBS has a clear sustainability strategy with four pillars: (1) a commitment to responsible banking practices, 
including being the book-runner for two green bond insurances to-date; (2) a commitment to minimise 
negative environmental and social risks and impacts stemming from its own operations and supply chain; 
(3) a commitment to create social impact; and (4) a commitment to be an employer of choice.   
 
As  reflected  in  this  sustainability  strategy,  DBS  is  committed  to  contributing  to  positive  societal 
development through responsible products and services as well as responsible conduct  within its own 
operations. Both of these components are addressed by the DBS Green Bond Framework.  
 
Additionally, DBS also states a commitment to advance four SDGs within the context of its sustainability 
strategy  –  SDG  7:  Affordable  and  Clean  Energy,  SDG  8:  Decent  Work  and  Economic  Growth,  SDG  12: 
Responsible Consumption and Production, and SDG 13: Climate Action. The DBS Green Bond framework 
will also contribute to the DBS’ objective to advance the SDGs 7 and 13 through its Responsible Banking 
pillar.  
 
Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  DBS  Green  Bond  Framework  is  aligned  with  DBS’  corporate 
sustainability strategy, and will contribute to its objective to advance the SDGs.  
 
Well positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated with the projects 
By offering financing services, banks are exposed to risks associated with controversial companies and/or 
projects  they  may  finance.  To  reduce  exposure  and  prevent  negative  impacts,  banks  are  expected  to 
implement ESG standards for assessing companies and projects they choose to finance.  
 
DBS  conducts  assessments  on  environmental  and  social  risks  when  starting  relationships  with  new 
customers, granting new loans and revising loans. This includes continuous monitoring of ESG risks across 
its  transactions  and  enhanced  due  diligence  in  relation  to  clients  operating  in  high-risk  sectors  and 
performing sensitive activities. Additionally, DBS requires Environmental and Social Impact Assessments 
and  related  mitigation  plans  for  all  project  finance  transactions.  In  cases  of  non-compliance,  DBS  is 
committed to engage with its customers to mitigate ESG risks and terminate relationships, if necessary. 
An  internal  escalation  procedure  exists  to  resolve  any  issues  with  respect  to  lending  practices,  where 
relevant Global Industry Heads, Country Institutional Banking Group Heads and Global Industry Executive 
Credit Risk Manager are ultimately accountable for a sign-off. Risk assessment procedures are reviewed 
regularly to incorporate emerging new risks and best practices. DBS’ Board Risk Management Committee 
oversees ESG related risk assessment frameworks. 
 
DBS  has  strong  responsible  investment  policies,  such  as  a  commitment  to  integrate  ESG  factors,  a 
commitment  to  exclusion  based  on  the  customers’  activities,  and  a  commitment  to  engage  with 
customers on ESG issues. Monitoring of ESG risks is performed at both customer and portfolio levels, and 

 
 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

is integrated with the Group’s existing credit review processes. Overall, Sustainalytics is of the opinion 
that DBS has comprehensive internal management systems to prevent and mitigate ESG risks in its lending 
practices. 
 
Section 2: Impact of Use of Proceeds 
Importance of Green Buildings, Renewable Energy, Energy Efficiency and Climate Change Adaptation in 
Asia  
As  of  2013,  about  half  of  all  carbon  dioxide  (CO2)  emissions  came  from  Asia8.  These  emissions  are 
increasing globally, and at a faster rate in Asia than in other parts of the world9. In the aftermath of the 
COP2110 in Paris, there is a global desire to reduce energy use, increase energy efficiency and implement 
innovative technologies to combat climate change.  
 
Being located on an island with no natural resources, Singapore especially can be predisposed to continue 
using energy derived from fossil fuels. Despite this, Singapore has pledged to conserve energy and set 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reduction targets: by 2020 to reduce its GHG emissions by 16% from 
business-as-usual levels; and by 2030 to reduce its energy intensity by 35% below 2005 levels. Overall, 
improving energy efficiency remains one of the key focus areas for Singapore to reduce GHG emissions 
across various sectors. For example, Singapore has a target to maintain the proportion of  Building and 
Construction Authority (BCA) Green Mark Certified buildings at 80%11. 
 
Given this context, financing green buildings, renewable energy, energy efficiency projects and climate 
change  adaptation projects  –  all of which contribute to climate change mitigation and adaptation  –  is 
especially important for Asia.   
 
Importance of Waste Management in Asia 
According to the World Bank, East Asia Pacific and South Asia regions contribute roughly one quarter of 
global  waste.  Urbanisation  and  prosperity  growth  lead  to  increased  waste  generation,  and  in  those 
regions the urbanisation trend is strong. By 2025 it is projected that the urban population will grow by 
more than 50%, while projected urban waste will more than double12. 
 
Singapore is one of the most densely populated cities in the world. With total population of more than 
5.5 million people, it produced 8,559 tonnes of waste per day in 2016, up from 1,260 tonnes in 197013. 
Population  and  affluence  growth  have  led  to  increased  levels  of  waste.  To  cope  with  this  problem, 
Singapore’s  National  Environment  Agency  (NEA)  plans,  develops  and  manages  its  waste  management 
 
8 http://cait.wri.org/historical/Country%20GHG%20Emissions?indicator[]=Total%20GHG%20Emissions%20Excluding%20Land-
Use%20Change%20and%20Forestry&indicator[]=Total%20GHG%20Emissions%20Including%20Land-
Use%20Change%20and%20Forestry&year[]=2013&act[]=World%20(sum%20of%20all%20CAIT%20countries)&sortIdx=NaN&regions=true&c
hartType=geo  
9 https://www.epa.gov/climate-indicators/climate-change-indicators-global-greenhouse-gas-emissions# 
10 http://www.cop21paris.org/ 
11 http://www.mewr.gov.sg/ssb/ 
12 http://siteresources.worldbank.org/INTURBANDEVELOPMENT/Resources/336387-1334852610766/Chap3.pdf 
13 http://www.nea.gov.sg/energy-waste/waste-management 

 
 

10 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

system. This system is focused on reducing and recycling of waste and includes: promotion of efficient 
resource use, collection infrastructure, solid waste disposal and recycling infrastructure, and four waste-
to-energy incineration plants. This approach to waste management is designed to reach the government’s 
target of 70% national recycling rate by 203014. In 2016, NEA reports that the recycling rate reached 61%, 
while 38% of waste served as input for energy generation, and only 2% of waste was sent to landfill15. 
 
Given this context,  allocating proceeds from DBS’  Green Bond issuances to enhance  infrastructure  for 
waste recycling and waste-to-energy activities is especially important for Singapore. By doing so, DBS will 
contribute  to  the  enhancement  of  Singapore’s  waste  management  system  and  consequently  to  the 
ambitious national target recycling rate. In the broader Asia region, projects funded by DBS’ Green Bond 
proceeds  will  contribute  to the enhancement of infrastructure and  waste management  in other Asian 
cities,  leading  to  improved  environment  and  healthier  communities.  For  example,  the  World  Health 
Organization (WHO) estimates that globally about 12.6 million people died in 2012 as a result of living or 
working in an unhealthy environment, including air, water and soil pollution, and chemical exposures16.  
Waste  management  has  the  potential  to  solve  this  problem  and  directly  contributes  to  SDG  3:  Good 
Health and Well-being and SDG 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities. 
 
Credibility of Singapore’s VES Standards 
Singapore  issued  new  emission  standards  for  cars  –  Vehicles  Emissions  Scheme  (VES)  –  that  will  be 
mandatory for compliance as of January 1, 2018. These standards include limits for hydrocarbon (HC), 
carbon monoxide (CO), nitrogen oxides (NOx) and particulate matter (PM) in addition to CO2 emissions17. 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that VES standards are comparable to the US EPA’s SmartWay Certification 
and EU emission standards. The VES standards also include calculation of CO2 emissions from electricity 
generated to power electric and hybrid vehicles.   
 
Singapore’s VES standards limit air emissions produced by vehicles during the use stage that have most 
negative impact on the environment and human health. As such, Sustainalytics views the standards as 
credible and aligned to international best practices.  
 
Section 3: Sustainalytics Opinion on the DBS Green Bond Framework 
Overall, Sustainalytics views DBS’ eligibility criteria for Use of Proceeds under its Green Bond Framework 
as credible and robust. All of its Use of Proceeds categories are recognised as eligible by the Green Bond 
Principles  2017.  In  addition,  Sustainalytics  views  the  following  elements  of  the  DBS  Green  Bond 
Framework positively:  
 

  DBS’ Green Buildings eligibility criterion is based on third-party certification standards, and DBS 
commits to only funding the top levels of these certifications through its Green Bond proceeds. 
Sustainalytics has conducted an evaluation of the certifications, and views the focus on the top 
levels of certification as industry best practice (see Appendix 1). 

 
14 http://www.mewr.gov.sg/ssb/ 
15 http://worldwastetoenergy.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/05/Kan-Kok-Wah.pdf 
16 http://www.who.int/mediacentre/news/releases/2016/deaths-attributable-to-unhealthy-environments/en/ 
17 http://www.straitstimes.com/singapore/transport/tighter-standards-to-rein-in-vehicle-emissions 

11 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

 

  With respect to the Climate Change Adaptation eligibility criterion, DBS has committed to asking 
its borrowers for project-specific studies that assess the risk exposure of funded projects to the 
effects of climate change. DBS has also disclosed to Sustainalytics that it will not allocate Green 
Bond  proceeds to fund lending to projects that  do not have  associated studies detailing a risk 
assessment to the effects of climate change. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that this is aligned 
with market best practice, as such project-specific studies strengthen the impact of the use of 
proceeds by establishing a clear case that adaptation infrastructure is being funded as a direct 
response to climate change risks. 

 

  Finally,  DBS  has  also  disclosed  to  Sustainalytics  an  intention  to  review  the  eligibility  criteria 
annually in order to ensure alignment with evolving market practices (including any updates to 
the GBP), alignment  with its  own sustainability strategy,  and to address  any emerging climate 
change  issues  as  they  arise.  This  review  will  be  conducted  by  the  DBS  Sustainability  Council. 
Changes to the eligibility criteria, if any, arising from this review will be disclosed to investors in 
its annual reporting.  

 
Sustainalytics also recommends DBS to disclose to investors the eligible categories to be funded at the 
time  of  issuance  of  each  green  bond,  whenever  possible,  and  where  project/category  review  and 
evaluation has been completed and allocation of proceeds has been determined.  
 
Alignment with Green Bond Principles 2017 
Sustainalytics has determined that the DBS Green Bond Framework aligns to the four core components 
of  the  Green  Bond  Principles  2017.  For  detailed  information  please  refer  to  Appendix  2:  Green 
Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form. 
 
 
Conclusion 
DBS  Green  Bond  Framework  is  transparent  and  provides  clarity  regarding  the  use  of  proceeds.  DBS’ 
responsible business operations and investments contribute to transformational SDGs in Singapore and 
the region, creating positive environmental and social impacts. The Framework is also aligned with the 
four core components of the Green Bond Principles 2017. Overall, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that DBS 
Green Bond Framework is credible and robust.  
 

 

 

 
 

12 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

APPENDICES 
 
Appendix 1: Comparison of Real Estate Certification Schemes 

 

LEED 

HK BEAM Plus 

Background 

Certification 
levels 

Areas of 
Assessment: 
Environmental 
Performance 
of the Building 

Leadership in Energy 
and Environmental 
Design (LEED) is a US 
Certification System 
for residential and 
commercial buildings 
used worldwide. LEED 
was developed by the 
non-profit U.S. Green 
Building Council 
(USGBC) and covers 
the design, 
construction, 
maintenance and 
operation of 
buildings. 
Certified  
Silver  
Gold  
Platinum 

  Energy and 

atmosphere  

  Sustainable Sites  
  Location and 

Transportation 
  Materials and 

resources  

  Water efficiency  
  Indoor 

environmental 
quality  

  Innovation in 

Design  

  Regional Priority 

BEAM Society Limited (BSL), 
owner of the Building 
Environmental Assessment 
Method (BEAM), is a public 
body established in 2010. It 
owns BEAM Plus - a green 
building assessment tool 
tailor-made for the high-
rise, high density built 
environment of sub-tropical 
climate in Hong Kong. 

Bronze 
Silver 
Gold  
Platinum 

  Site Aspects (location and 

design of building, 
emissions from the site, 
site management) 
  Materials Aspects 

(selection of materials, 
efficient use of materials, 
waste disposal and 
recycling)  

  Energy Use (annual CO2 
emissions or energy use, 
energy efficient systems 
and equipment, energy 
management)  

  Water Use (water quality, 

water conservation, 
effluent discharges) 

 
18 https://www.bca.gov.sg/greenmark/green_mark_buildings.html  

Singapore BCA 
Green Mark 
The BCA Green 
Mark Scheme 
provides real 
estate 
certifications in 
Singapore to 
promote 
sustainability in 
the built 
environment 
(during project 
conceptualisation 
and design, as well 
as during 
construction.)18 

Certified 
Gold 
Gold Plus 
Platinum 
 
 
  Climate 

Responsive 
Design  

CHINA THREE STAR 

The Chinese 3-Star 
Green Building 
Standard is a 
Certification System 
used in China for 
residential and public 
buildings (including 
commercial, hotel and 
government-owned) 
that was introduced in 
2006 by MOHURD 
(Ministry of Housing 
and Urban-Rural 
Development). 
 
 
1-Star  
2-Star  
3-Star 

  Land savings and 

outdoor 
environment;  

  Building Energy 

  Energy savings and 

Performance 

  Resource 

Stewardship 

  Smart and 

Healthy 
Buildings 

  Advanced Green 

Efforts 

 

utilisation;  

  Water savings and 

utilisation;  

  Material savings and 

utilisation;  

  Indoor environment; 
  Operations and 

management. 

 
 

13 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Requirements 

Prerequisites 
 
The system functions 
on a checklist basis, 
with 1-Star buildings 
meeting 26 criteria, 2-
Star an additional 43 
items, and 3-Star on a 
further 14 items. 
Criteria and weighting 
differ for public and 
residential buildings. In 
public buildings, more 
weight is given to 
energy and material 
savings, while the 
standard for residential 
buildings places greater 
importance on urban 
land saving and outdoor 
environments. 

Prerequisites 
(independent of level 
of certification) + 
Credits with 
associated points  
 
These points are then 
added together to 
obtain the LEED level 
of certification 
 
There are several 
different rating 
systems within LEED. 
Each rating system is 
designed to apply to a 
specific sector (e.g. 
New Construction, 
Major Renovation, 
Core and Shell 
Development, 
Schools-/Retail-
/Healthcare New 
Construction and 
Major Renovations, 
Existing Buildings: 
Operation and 
Maintenance).  
 

  Indoor Environmental 

Quality (IEQ)   
 

Prerequisites for each 
performance area + Credits 
with associated points 
 
Detailed compliance with 
legal requirements is a 
prerequisite for the award 
of credits.  
 
For every performance area 
BEAM prescribes different 
prerequisites. Every 
applicable prerequisite in 
every BEAM category must 
be achieved for the project 
to be assessed.  
 
Credits are allocated for 
each performance area, and 
every area is weighted as 
per international 
consensus.19 The Overall 
Assessment Grade is 
determined by the 
percentage (%) of the 
applicable credits gained 
under each performance 
category and its weighting 
factor. 
 
Verification of compliance 
with BEAM criteria is done 
by an independent BEAM 
Assessor.  

Prerequisites for 
each performance 
area (to 
demonstrate 
minimum criteria 
met) + numerical 
scores achieved in 
accordance with 
the criteria in each 
performance area. 
Performance Areas 
have different 
weights. 20 
 
Depending on the 
level of building 
performance and 
numerical score 
achieved in 
performance area, 
building’s level of 
certification is 
determined.  
 
Assessment of 
compliance with 
Green Mark 
criteria is done by 
the Singapore 
Building and 
Construction 
Authority (BCA).  
 

Performance 
display 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
19 https://www.beamsociety.org.hk/files/download/download-20130724174420.pdf  
20 https://www.bca.gov.sg/GreenMark/others/Green_Mark_NRB_2015_Criteria.pdf  

 
 

14 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

21 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics  is  an  independent  ESG  and  corporate  governance  research,  ratings  and  analysis  firm 
supporting  investors  around  the  world  with  the  development  and  implementation  of  responsible 
investment  strategies. With 13 offices globally, Sustainalytics partners with institutional investors who 
integrate  environmental,  social  and  governance  information  and  assessments  into  their  investment 
processes.  Today,  the  firm  has  more  than  300  staff  members,  including  170  analysts  with  varied 
multidisciplinary  expertise  of  more  than  40  sectors.  Through  the  IRRI  survey,  investors  selected 
Sustainalytics as the best independent responsible investment research firm for three consecutive years, 
2012 through 2014 and in 2015, Sustainalytics was named among the top three firms for both ESG and 
Corporate Governance research. The firm was also named the Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
Global Capital in 2015. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com  
 
Sustainalytics 
info@sustainalytics.com  
www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 

22 

