 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 KOREA DEVELOPMENT 

BANK  

GREEN BOND 

 

 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

May 12th, 2017 

Charlotte Peyraud (New York) 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 

 (+1) 646 518 0184 

Vikram Puppala  

 
 

Senior Advisor, Institutional Relations 

charlotte.peyraud@sustainalytics.com 

Trisha Taneja（Toronto) 

Advisor, Advisory Services 
trisha.taneja@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 647 317 3695 

 
 

Vikram Puppala  

James Hawylak (Tokyo) 

Director, Institutional Relations 
james.hawrylak@sustainalytics.com 
(+81) 3 4589 4886 

 
 

Vikram Puppala  

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

1. 

Introduction 

2.  Overview of Issuer 

3.  Framework overview 
3.1  Use of Proceeds 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
3.3  Management of Proceeds 
3.4  Reporting 

4  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 

Section 1: Sustainability Performance of the Issuer 
Section 2: Impact of Use of Proceeds 
Conclusion 

APPENDICES 

Appendix 1: Examples of projects funded by KDB Green Bond Proceeds 
Appendix 2: Sustainalytics’ analysis of the Equator Principles 
Appendix 3: Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

1 

3 

3 

4 
4 
4 
4 
5 

6 
6 
7 
8 

9 
9 
10 
11 

18 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

1. INTRODUCTION 
 
The Korea Development Bank (KDB, or the Bank) has developed a green bond framework  (KDB Green 
Bond Framework) under which it is planning to issue multiple green bonds the proceeds of which will 
finance/refinance expenditures related to new and existing renewable energy projects. KDB has engaged 
Sustainalytics  to  provide  a  second  opinion  on  its  framework  and  the  framework’s  environmental 
credentials. As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of the 
issuer’s management team to understand the sustainability impact of their business processes and the 
planned  use  of  proceeds.  Sustainalytics  also  reviewed  relevant  public  and  internal  documents.  This 
document contains two sections: Framework Overview – summary of KDB’s Green Bond framework; and 
Sustainalytics’ Opinion – an opinion on the framework. 
 
 
2. OVERVIEW OF ISSUER 
 
The Korea Development Bank (KDB) was founded in 1954 in accordance with The Korea Development 
Bank Act for the purpose of supplying and managing industrial capital to help develop Korean industries 
and the national economy. The Government of the Republic of Korea directly owns all of KDB’s paid-in 
capital, and KDB acts as a policy bank to implement the Government’s policy. KDB’s main business areas 
consist of 1) corporate banking, 2) investment banking, 3) corporate restructuring and 4) consulting & 
research.  For overseas business, KDB has 22 overseas networks in the forms of branches, subsidiaries and 
representative offices and takes a part in the local financing activities.   
 
KDB states that its objective is to strengthen its support for the improvement of economic, ecological and 
social living conditions at the local, national, and global level with the goal of contributing to sustainable 
development.  It  aims  to  achieve  this objective  through  activities  that  help  its partners  and  borrowers 
achieve  their  development  goals  (i.e.  to  reduce  poverty,  bring  prosperity,  secure  peace,  promote 
democracy,  shape  globalization  in  an  equitable  manner,  and  engage  in  environmental  and  climate 
protection).  
 
Additionally, KDB also works closely with other international financial groups that are greatly committed 
to sustainability, through active participation in memberships such as UN Global Compact (UNGC), the 
International Development Finance  Club (IDFC) and Equator Principles Financial Institutions principles. 
KDB  also  takes  part  in  Green  Climate  Fund  (GCF)  as an  accredited  entity to  carry  out  the  GCF-funded 
projects and ultimately to facilitate sustainable growth in the global community. 
 
 
 
 

 
 

3 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

3. FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 
For  the  purpose  of  issuing  the  Green  Bond(s),  KDB  has  developed  the  following  framework,  which 
addresses  the  four  key  pillars  of  the  Green  Bond  Principles  (GBP):  use  of  proceeds,  project  selection 
process, management of proceeds, and reporting. 
 
3.1   Use of Proceeds 
An amount equal to the net proceeds of the Green Bond(s) will be allocated to new and existing 
renewable energy projects that meet the following eligibility criteria:  
 

1.  Expenditures related to the development, construction, or expansion of facilities for solar or 

wind power generation, or 
 

2.  Expenditures related to the development, construction, or expansion of biomass power plants. 

 
The allocation of net proceeds will include (i) existing projects financed during the two years preceding 
the issue date of the Green Bond, (ii) projects committed to prior to the issue date of the Green Bond but 
financed following the issue date of the Green Bond and (iii) projects committed to and financed after the 
issue date of the Green Bond.   
 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
Projects are selected for funding through the Green Bond’s proceeds if they meet one of the two eligibility 
criteria described in section 3.1.  The selection of projects is carried out by the Project Finance Center at 
KDB.  
 
Additionally,  KDB  has  a  project  selection  and  evaluation  process  in  place  for  all  projects  it  funds. This 
process evaluates projects on the basis of their financial viability as well as any environmental and social 
risks associated with them.  Through this process, the Project Finance Center, the Industry & Technology 
Research Center, and the Credit Review Department are in charge of conducting due diligence, project 
approval review, and technical monitoring in respect of environment and social risk management and 
supervising mitigation activities throughout the project life cycle. 
 
 

3.3        Management of Proceeds  
The proceeds from each Green Bond issued will be allocated and managed by KDB’s Treasury Department 
following specific recommendations from KDB’s Project Finance Center.  The Treasury Department has an 
internal management system that will track the allocation of proceeds to such projects within its internal 
management system, including brief descriptions of the projects, the regions in which the projects are 
located, and the amount of proceeds allocated to the projects.  
 
Pending allocation, net proceeds from the sale of the notes may be invested in cash, cash equivalents 
and/or marketable securities, in accordance with KDB’s cash management policies. 
 

 
 

4 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

3.4    Reporting  
With respect to use of proceeds of the Green Bond(s), KDB plans to provide an “Investor Newsletter” on 
an annual basis and to include information on allocation of proceeds in its Annual Report.  
 
The newsletter and annual report shall be posted to KDB’s website.  
 
The Investor Newsletter will include following information:  
 

1.  A list of projects funded through the KDB Green Bond, with specific details on the project, and 

amounts allocated to projects; 
 

2.  The total amount outstanding for all Green Bond transactions; 

 

3.  Remaining unallocated proceeds; 

 

4.  Estimated environmental impact of the projects funded. Whenever possible KDB will report on 

KwH of renewable energy generated, and tonnes of CO2 equivalent avoided.  
 
 

KDB has confirmed that it will report the allocation of proceeds and impact per project funded to the 
extent  that  it  has  a  disclosure  agreement  with  the  borrower.    Otherwise,  disclosure  of  allocation  and 
impact reporting will be on a project portfolio basis.  
 
KDB has also communicated that due to internal constraints, external verification of allocation of proceeds 
is not feasible.  

 

 

 

 
 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

4  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
 
Section 1: Sustainability Performance of the Issuer 
 
Alignment of Green Bond Framework with KDB’s sustainability strategy 
KDB  states  that  it  is  fully  committed  to  promoting  sustainable  development  among  its  partners  and 
borrowers and to helping them achieve their development goals. KDB furthermore specifies that, through 
its financing activities, it shall strengthen its support for sustainable development at the local, national, 
and global level. The bond issue aligns well with KDB’s green financing programme which consists largely 
of (a) providing funds for “green” industries, (b) providing low-carbon project financing, (c) participating 
as a major player in the emissions trading markets, and (d) providing knowledge management and analysis 
of the green industry markets, in developed and developing countries. 
 
The Bank’s commitment to sustainable development is evidenced by its participation, engagement and 
involvement in international principles and organizations that promote sustainable developmet. KDB is a 
signatory to the UN Global Compact (UNGC), and actively participates in the International Development 
Finance Club (IDFC). Furthermore, KDB takes part in Green Climate Fund (GCF) as an accredited entity to 
carry  out  GCF-funded  projects  and  ultimately  to  facilitate  sustainable  growth.1 In  January  2017,  KDB 
joined the Equator Principles, a risk management framework for large scale projects. KDB is the first bank 
headquartered in Korea to adopt the Equator Principles.  
 
Well positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated with the projects 
The Equator Principles (EP) apply to all industry sectors and to four financial products: project finance 
advisory services; project finance; project-related corporate loans; and bridge loans. As a signatory of the  
Equator Principles , KDB commits to implementing the EP in its internal environmental and social policies, 
procedures and standards for financing projects. The Bank will not provide financing to projects where 
the client will not comply with the Equator Principles.  
 
The EP are commonly accepted as a credible standard and widely used by financial institutions worldwide, 
including a number of multilateral development banks and export credit agencies.2 Lending as per the EP 
thus contributes to KDB’s robust environmental and social risk mitigation approach. See Appendix 2 for a 
detailed analysis of the Equator Principles.  
 
In  addition  to  being  a  signatory  of  the  EP,  KDB  has  implemented  a  strong  internal  risk  management 
system. KDB’s Project Finance Center conducts a preliminary appraisal of environmental and social (ES) 
impacts of  projects  and reviews  related  industrial and feasibility analyses. KDB’s  Preliminary Appraisal 
Committee on ES impacts is responsible for reviewing and classifying the risk category of projects based 
on a ES risk management plan and associated checklist submitted by the borrower and, if necessary, an 
ES risk assessment report prepared by a third-party consultant. The risk category determines the degree 
of due diligence and on-going monitoring and disclosure requirements for the project.  

 
1 GCF Homepage: http://www.greenclimate.fund  
2 Equator Principles Association Members, accessed April 28, 2017 from http://www.equator-principles.com/index.php/members-reporting  

6 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

 
Proposed  projects  are  categorized  A,  B  or  C  to  reflect  the  magnitude  of  risks  and  impacts.  KDB’s 
categorization system is based on its experience as well as the analysis of (i) IFC‘s Performance Standards 
and  (ii)  general  and  industry-specific  Environmental,  Health,  and  Safety  guidelines;  these  serve  as 
technical reference for good international industry practice. This categorization of projects based on IFC 
Performance Standards and examples of good industry practice evidences the Bank’s robust approach to 
risk mitigation.  
 
Once approved, project implementation is monitored by the Project Finance Center, the Credit Review 
Division and/or external experts, and, if necessary, Industry & Technology Research Center.  
 
Mitigating common environmental risks associated with biomass projects 
Typically, the use of energy crops as a source of biomass is related to a number of environmental concerns, 
including the use of pesticides, and effects of deforestation and erosion. The removal of forests for the 
production of energy crops can also result in greenhouse gas emission.  
 
However, KDB is avoiding these risks by opting for a waste-to-energy (WtE) approach. KDB has confirmed 
that the biomass power plant funded through green bond proceeds will use wood pellets made of low-
grade wood fiber, tops and limbs that cannot be processed into lumber, commercial thinning and mill 
residues such as chips, sawdust and other wood industry by-products. This WtE approach has the benefit 
of being a viable waste management solution. 
 
  
Section 2: Impact of Use of Proceeds 
Contribution to Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction  
KDB’s  Green Bond issue will be allocated to renewable energy projects including biomass power plants, 
solar  power  generation  facilities,  onshore  wind  power  generation  facilities,  and  offshore  wind  power 
generation facilities.  
 
The bond will reduce GHG emissions from electricity generation in Korea and directly contribute to the 
country’s goal to reduce its GHG emissions across all economic sectors by 37% from the business-as-usual 
levels (850.6 MtCO2eq) by 2030.3  
 
 
Advancement of U.N. Sustainable Development Goals 
KDB’s  Green  Bond  will  also  contribute  to  the  United  Nations  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDG), 
specifically to SDG 7, target 2: “By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global 
energy mix.”4 Renewable energy provides viable and cost-effective options for expanding access to the 

 
3 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC): Government of Korea INDC, accessed April 18, 2017 from: 
http://www4.unfccc.int/ndcregistry/PublishedDocuments/Republic%20of%20Korea%20First/INDC%20Submission%20by%20the%20Republic%
20of%20Korea%20on%20June%2030.pdf 
4 https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdg7 
 

7 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

energy poor, particularly for those in rural and remote areas. It helps reduce dependence on imported 
fuels and vulnerability to fossil fuel price fluctuations. It also contributes to improving local air quality and 
reduces the energy sector’s dependence on water for energy extraction and production, thus reducing 
conflicts with agriculture and other end-uses.5 
 
 
Alignment with Green Bond Principles 2016:  Sustainalytics has determined  that  the KDB Green Bond 
Framework aligns to the four pillars of the Green Bond Principles 2016. For detailed information please 
refer to Appendix 3: Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form. 
 
 
Conclusion 
KDB’s green bond framework is transparent and provides clarity regarding use of proceeds and outcomes 
of the green bond investments. Renewable energy is recognized by the GBP as an eligible green project 
category, offering clear environmental benefits. In the context of Korea’s renewable energy goals, KDB’s 
lending to solar, wind and WtE projects contributes to an important national priority and the country’s 
goal to reduce GHG emissions. Overall, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that KDB’s green bond framework 
is credible and robust.  

 

 
5 UNDP Support to the Implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals, accessed April 15, 2017; 
http://www.undp.org/content/undp/en/home/librarypage/sustainable-development-goals/undp-support-to-the-implementation-of-the-2030-
agenda/ 

8 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

APPENDICES 
 
Appendix 1: Examples of projects funded by KDB Green Bond Proceeds  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Appendix 2: Sustainalytics’ analysis of the Equator Principles 
 
The credibility of the EP as a risk management tool derives from its ability to ensure: 
 

(i)  A mandatory review of all projects with respect to their level of impact in a comprehensive range 

of environmental and social areas 
 
Principle 1 of the EP mandates a review and categorisation of all projects as having significant 
(Category  A),  limited  (Category  B),  or  minimal  (Category  C)  environmental  and  social  impact. 
Impact  is  assessed  on  the  eight  IFC  Performance  Standards  on  Environmental  and  Social 
Sustainability.  These  cover  a  wide  range  of  issues  to  address  environmental  and  social  risk, 
including  management  of  environmental  and  social  impacts,  community  health,  resource 
efficiency and pollution prevention, and labour conditions. 
 

(ii)  Strong mitigation process for projects with significant or limited adverse environmental and social 

impact 
 
The  EPs  (specifically  Principles  2-6)  also  require  all 6  Category  A  and  B  projects  to  conduct 
environmental and social impact assessments, develop and maintain environmental management 
systems, demonstrate effective stakeholder engagement, and establish a grievance mechanism7 
to address concerns around the project’s environmental and social performance. Sustainalytics is 
of the opinion that the abovementioned components combine to form a strong overall process 
for mitigating impacts throughout the life of project. 

 
 
(iii) Continuous 

independent  assurance  of  a  project’s  environmental  and  social 

impact 

 
Principle 7 of the EP require that Category A and as appropriate, Category B projects are subject 
to an independent review to assess the strength of the mitigation processes outlined above, and 
to assess compliance with the EP. Additionally, Principle 9 of the EP also requires the appointment 
of  an  independent  environmental  and  social  consultant  to  verify  ongoing  monitoring  and 
reporting of project impacts. 

 
 
 
 
 

 
6 Please note that for projects implemented in a set list of ‘Designated Countries,’ compliance with host country laws meets these mitigation 
requirements. This is because these countries are assessed as having robust environmental and social governance, legislation systems and 
institutional capacity designed to protect their people and the natural environment. 
7 For all Category A and, as appropriate, Category B Projects, KDB’s client are required, as part of the ESMS, to establish a grievance 
mechanism designed to receive and facilitate resolution of concerns and grievances about the project’s environmental and social performance 

10 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 
 

 

 

 
 

17 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics  is  an  independent  ESG  and  corporate  governance  research,  ratings  and  analysis  firm 
supporting  investors  around  the  world  with  the  development  and  implementation  of  responsible 
investment  strategies. With 13 offices globally, Sustainalytics partners with institutional investors who 
integrate  environmental,  social  and  governance  information  and  assessments  into  their  investment 
processes.  Today,  the  firm  has  more  than  300  staff  members,  including  170  analysts  with  varied 
multidisciplinary  expertise  of  more  than  40  sectors.  Through  the  IRRI  survey,  investors  selected 
Sustainalytics as the best independent responsible investment research firm for three consecutive years, 
2012 through 2014 and in 2015, Sustainalytics was named among the top three firms for both ESG and 
Corporate Governance research. The firm was also named the Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
Global Capital in 2015. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com  
 
Sustainalytics 
info@sustainalytics.com  
www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 

18 

