ALPHA TRAINS 

 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

GREEN PRIVATE PLACEMENT 
 

 

 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

October 20, 2016 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 

Vikram Puppala (Toronto) 

  

Ankita Shukla (Toronto) 

Tim Langer (London) 

Associate Director, Advisory Services 
vikram.puppala@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 647 317 364 

Senior Advisor, Advisory Services 

ankita.shukla@sustainalytics.com  
(+1) 416 861 0403 

 
 

Vikram Puppala  

Advisor, Institutional Relations 
tim.langer@sustainalytics.com 
(+44) 20 3695 9528 
 

Vikram Puppala  

Manager,  

© Sustainalytics 2016 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

PREFACE 

INTRODUCTION 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 

Use of Proceeds 
Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
Management of Proceeds 
Reporting 

SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 

Conclusion 

APPENDICES 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

1 

3 

3 

4 
4 
4 
5 
5 

6 
7 

8 

17 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

PREFACE 
Alpha Trains Finance S.A., an entity of the Alpha Trains Group (Alpha Trains), plans to issue a Green Private 
Placement to refinance debt in relation to a fleet of energy efficient Electric Multiple Unit (EMU) trains. 
Alpha Trains engaged Sustainalytics to provide a second-party opinion on its  Green Private Placement 
framework,  its  alignment  with  the  transparency  and  reporting  requirements  of  the  Green  Bond 
Principles1,  as  well  as  the  placement’s  environmental  credentials.  As  part  of  this  engagement, 
Sustainalytics held conversations with members of Alpha Trains’ teams and reviewed relevant public and 
internal documents. This document contains two sections: Framework Overview – a summary of Alpha 
Trains’ Green Private Placement framework; and Sustainalytics’ Opinion – a second party opinion on the 
framework. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Alpha Trains, established in 1999, with its headquarters in Luxembourg, is the largest (by number of leased 
passenger trains and locomotives) and most diversified lessor of electric and diesel rolling stock to both 
public and private operators in Continental Europe. Its portfolio of approximately 370 freight locomotives 
and 440 passenger trains is operational in 13 European countries and is managed from its headquarters 
in Luxembourg and offices in Antwerp, Cologne, and Madrid. 
 
Alpha Trains’  commitment to green and sustainable transportation is captured in the  Group’s  mission 
statement  and  in  its  Environmental,  Social  and  Governance  (ESG)  Policy  (Appendix  2).  In  its  Group’s 
mission  statement,  the  Group  acknowledges  its  role,  in  sustainable  transportation  and  enabling  the 
transition  to  a  low-carbon  economy.  In  its  ESG  Policy,  Alpha  Trains  also  recognises  the  importance of 
identifying  and  managing  environmental  risk  in  its  business  activities  by  adhering  to  principles  of 
sustainable management and by responding appropriately in dealing with its own environmental impacts. 
The Group’s commitment to environmental responsibility is supported by the fact that 75% of the Group’s 
rolling stock is comprised of Electric Multiple Unit (EMU) trains and electric locomotives2. The Group states 
that  their  relatively  young  and  energy efficient  rolling  stock  (weighted  average  fleet  age  is 6.1  years3) 
consistently achieves a high utilization rate (96.1% in 2015) and often replaces old and less energy efficient 
rolling stock across Europe. 
 
In  line  with  its  mission  statement  and  ESG  Policy,  Alpha  Trains  is  planning  to  issue  a  Green  Private 
Placement to refinance debt in relation to a fleet of 63 energy efficient EMU train sets (“Eligible Assets”) 
that are deployed on 15-year concession agreements in Germany. 
 

 

 

 
1 The Green Bond Principles are voluntary process guidelines that recommend transparency and disclosure and promote integrity in the 

development of the Green Bond market. They provide issuers guidance on the key components involved in launching a credible Green Bond 
and aid investors by ensuring availability of information necessary to evaluate the environmental impact of their Green bond investments 

2 Alpha Trains. Vision - Mission – Values. Accessed September 10, 2016:  http://www.alpha-trains.eu/alphatrains-infos-history--en--

Company+history+and+our+vision+mission+and+values.html  

3 Based on weighted Net Book Value as at August 2016 

3 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 
Alpha Trains’ Green Private Placement framework follows the four key pillars of the Green Bond Principles 
(“GBP”): 

  Use of Proceeds 
  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
  Management of Proceeds 
  Reporting 

 
Use of Proceeds 
Eligibility Criteria 
Proceeds of the placement, to be issued by Alpha Trains Finance S.A., which is the financing company 
within  the  Alpha  Trains  ring-fenced  perimeter  (“Oak  Perimeter”),  will  be  directed  to  refinance  debt 
associated with the acquisition of two Electric Multiple Unit (EMU) fleets. The EMU fleets are currently 
financed in two separate legal entities outside of the Oak Perimeter, which are located in Luxembourg, 
“Alpha Trains EMIL S.à r.l.” and “Alpha Trains STS S.à r.l.”.  
 
The  Oak  Perimeter  is  a  dynamic  corporate  securitization  structure,  allowing  future  refinancing  and 
financing of potential acquisitions by Alpha Trains within a ring-fenced perimeter, with strong creditor 
protection and security. The senior debt of the Oak Perimeter has a current investment grade rating of 
Baa2  (Moody’s)  and  BBB  (Fitch)  and  is  currently  financed  by  banks,  institutional  investors  and  capital 
markets (through a public bond).  
 
The  fleets  consist  of  63  modern  and  energy  efficient  EMU  train  sets  leased  to  two  German  railway 
companies,  Abellio  Rail  Mitteldeutschland  (“Project  STS”)  and  WestfalenBahn  (“Project  EMIL”)  in 
December 2015 and with a concession of 15 years each. These assets are considered as Eligible Assets 
under Alpha Trains’ Green Private Placement framework based on the environmental benefits of efficient, 
electric rail transit. Details regarding these assets are described in Appendix 1. 
 
Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
Assets  financed  through  the  Green  Private  Placement  proceeds  are  selected  only  if  they  are  Electric 
Multiple Unit (EMU) fleets. The two EMU fleets were identified by the Alpha Trains’ funding team for the 
allocation of proceeds from the private placement. Additionally, Alpha Trains has a general acquisition 
process for all assets (including those financed through Green Private Placement proceeds) that assesses 
financially viability and compliance with company ESG Policy. This general process for asset acquisition is 
described below. 
 
Once a new rolling stock project opportunity is pursued, a team of staff from the Alpha Trains´ commercial 
and  engineering  departments  assesses  the  customer  needs  and  makes  the  necessary  technical  and 
sustainability  analyses  in  preparation  of  leasing  to  the  customer.  When  new  manufacturers  or  new 
production plants of already listed manufacturers have to be evaluated, the commercial and engineering 
teams usually perform onsite inspections and audits of the relevant production plants. These audits assess 
manufacturer’s compliance with both the technical and sustainability requirements of Alpha Trains. The 

 
 

4 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

engineering  and  commercial  teams  also  have  discussions  with  the  manufacturer´s  engineering 
department in order to assess the manufacturer´s ability to comply with Alpha Trains´ ESG Policy. Once 
the  results  of  the  asset  and  manufacturer  analyses  are  positive  from  an  ESG Policy  point  of view,  the 
project is presented to the relevant Alpha Trains Board of Directors and its ultimate shareholders. Projects 
are approved in the context of Alpha Trains’ strategic plans, whilst recognizing its commitment to the ESG 
policy. 
 
Management of Proceeds 
As noted above, proceeds raised by the Green Private Placement will be exclusively and immediately used 
to refinance debt associated with the acquisition of two EMU fleets. The Eligible Assets will be integrated 
in the Alpha Trains’ Oak Perimeter on an asset deal basis.  
 
Reporting  
Allocation Reporting  
Alpha Trains will report on allocation of proceeds of the Green Private Placement in an annual Full Year 
Investor Report, which will be published up to 180 days after financial year-end. Given that all the Green 
Private Placement proceeds will be allocated at the moment of issuance, information on the full allocation 
will be disclosed once in the Full Year Investor Report for the financial year of the issuance. Alpha Trains 
will report on the list of Eligible Assets refinanced on a project-by-project basis.  
  
Environmental impact reporting 
Alpha Trains is intending to annually report on the following impact metric: prospective carbon offset 
from Eligible EMU trains, in grams (g) of carbon dioxide equivalents. These metrics will be disclosed on a 
project-by-project basis. Alpha Trains will rely on current train operators to supply information on 
average distance per passenger (in kilometers) in order to calculate carbon offset and other required 
assumptions will be used based on publicly available information or general market assumptions. This 
information will be gathered and the carbon impact will be reported on a best effort basis.  

 
 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
 
Alpha Trains’ strong environmental commitment 
Alpha Trains’ environmental and social commitment is captured in the organisation’s mission statement 
and ESG Policy. The strength of Alpha Trains’ ESG Policy derives from (i) the Policy’s approval at the level 
of the Group’s board of directors; (ii) the Group’s promotion of environmental responsibility, as reflected 
in  its  commitment  to  encourage  staff  to  minimise  their  environmental  impact;  (iii)  the  Group’s 
commitment to manage the environmental risk of its business operations. Sustainalytics is of the opinion 
that  the  Group-wide  project  selection  process  described  in  the  framework  demonstrates  strong 
implementation of the Group’s environmental commitment. 
 
In addition to compliance with ESG Policy, Alpha Trains assesses fleets using its Voluntary Environmental 
and  Social  Criteria  prior  to  acquisition,  when  feasible.  These  criteria  are  comprehensive,  and  include 
assessing fleets for environmental and labour standards, use of energy efficiency technologies like LED 
lighting, use of meters for monitoring energy use, recycling rate of trains, etc. For a full list of the Group’s 
Voluntary Environmental and Social Criteria, please see Appendix 3. Specifically, with respect to the assets 
refinanced through the  proceeds of this placement, the trains meet the Voluntary Environmental and 
Social Criteria as explained below:  
 

  Project STS: The Talent 2 EMU train sets were manufactured by German subsidiary of global rail 
and  aviation  Bombardier  group,  based  in  Canada.  The  Talent  2  is  certified  according  to  the 
International  EPD  System  (Environmental  Product  Declarations)  and  Bombardier  applies  the 
latest technological and environmental standards which results in an energy efficient EMU train 
set of which 96% can be recycled. 

  Project EMIL: The Flirt 3 and KISS EMU are manufactured by German subsidiary of Swiss based 
Stadler Rail group, an established and innovative manufacturer providing LED lighting, cutting-
edge  low  weight  aluminum  welding  technology  for  the  car  bodies  and  modern  traction 
technology. 

 
Given  Alpha  Trains’  robust  ESG  Policy,  strong  implementation  of  the  policy,  and  consideration  of 
additional voluntary criteria, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Alpha Trains is well positioned to issue a 
Green Private Placement.  
 
Impact of rail transit on greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction 
Advancing rail transportation is closely linked to achieving climate targets. The European Commission set 
EU-wide GHG emission reduction targets for emissions from transportation in the “Roadmap to a Single 
European Transport Area”4. The Roadmap envisages a reduction from the transport sector of at least 60% 
of GHG by 2050 with respect to 1990, and an interim target for 2030 of reducing GHG emissions to around 
20%  below  2008  levels.  The  Commission  aspires  to  meet  these  targets  by  prioritising  modes  of 
transportation  that  can  easily  carry  large  numbers  of  passengers,  such  as  rail,  over  cars.  As  such,  the 

 
4 Roadmap to a Single European Transport Area. 2011 White Paper. Accessed September 9, 2016: http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-
content/EN/ALL/?uri=CELEX:52011DC0144  

6 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Roadmap envisages that the existing rail network  in Europe will be tripled in length by 2030, with the 
intention to ensure that the majority of medium-distance passenger travel is on rail transport by 2050.  
 
In addition to the general importance of rail transport in achieving the EU’s GHG reduction targets, the 
electrification  of  trains  is  also  significant  in  the  context  of  Germany’s  transportation  priorities.  The 
electrification of passenger trains offers significant GHG reduction potential and is a step to ensure that 
Germany’s infrastructure is capable of handling predicted increased demand in railway traffic.  Germany 
is the biggest regional rail market in Europe with roughly one quarter of the total number of passengers 
in Europe carried. The country’s railway network is 86 percent electrified and already offers a high level 
of  performance.  Between  1994  and  2008,  there  was  a  rise  in  the  proportion  of  passenger  transport 
covered by rail passenger transport from 6.6% to 7.5%, showing an increased demand in the mode of 
transportation. 
 
More  recently,  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  were  set  in  September  2015  and  form  an 
agenda for achieving sustainable development by the year 2030. These goals are widely considered the 
next step to the Millennium Development Goals (MDG), which were time-bound to 2015. Of particular 
importance  to  the  clean  transportation  category  under  the  Green  Bond  Principles  (GBP)  is  SDG  11 
Sustainable  Cities,  which  includes  a  target  on  providing  access  to  safe,  affordable,  accessible  and 
sustainable transport systems for all and on expanding public transport (11.2). The SDGs recognize the 
fundamental role of sustainable transport in fighting climate change and achieving a sustainable future. 
 
By  providing  modern  and  energy  efficient  electric  rolling  stock,  Alpha  Trains  is  contributing  to  the 
achievement of EU’s GHG reduction targets, is aligned with Germany’s transportation priorities, and is 
advancing  the  sustainable  public  transport  sector  in  Germany.  In  addition,  it  is  advancing  the  SDG  of 
creating safe and sustainable cities.  
 
Alignment with Green Bond Principles 2016: Sustainalytics has determined that the Alpha Trains Green 
Private Placement aligns to the four pillars of the Green Bond Principles 2016. For detailed information, 
please refer to Appendix 4: Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form. 
 
Conclusion 
Clean  transportation  is  recognised  by  the  Green  Bond  Principles  (GBP)  as  an  eligible  green  project 
category, offering clear environmental benefits. Alpha Trains’ Green Private Placement is transparent and 
provides clarity regarding use of proceeds and the outcomes of the investments. Sustainalytics is of the 
opinion that Alpha Trains’ Green Private Placement is credible and robust. 

 

 

 
 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

APPENDICES 
 
Appendix 1: Detailed Overview of Eligible Assets 
 

1.  Project STS Saale-Thüringen-Südharz (Project STS) 

Operated by Abellio Rail Mitteldeutschland GmbH, a 100% indirectly-owned subsidiary of Dutch 
state-owned railways NS. Located in central eastern Germany connecting major cities in four 
German states, including Leipzig (the most populated city in Saxony), Halle, Erfurt, and Kassel. 
The fleet consists of: 

 

35 Bombardier Talent 2 EMUs – providing a total of 6,330 seats 

o  Lot A: 20 3-car single deck Bombardier Talent 2 
o  Lot B: 15 5-car single deck Bombardier Talent 2  

 
The Talent 2 EMU train sets for the STS project were manufactured by the German subsidiary of 
global rail and aviation Bombardier group, based in Canada. The Talent 2 is certified according to 
the International EPD System (Environmental Product Declarations) and Bombardier applies the 
latest technological and environmental standards which results in an energy efficient EMU train 
set of which 96% can be recycled.  

2.  Project EMIL Emsland/Mittelland (Project EMIL) 

Operated by WestfalenBahn GmbH in the densely populated region of Ruhr. The region is 
characterised by strong economic activity with above-average income per capita. The area 
comprises several medium to large-sized municipalities (Münster, Osnabrück, Hannover, 
Braunschweig, Emden) that have a high number of passengers commuting between them. The 
fleet consists of: 

 

28 Stadler Flirt 3 and KISS EMUs – providing a total of 11,363 seats 

o  Lot A (Emsland): 15 single deck 4-car Stadler Flirt 3 
o  Lot B (Mittelland): 13 double deck 6-car Stadler KISS 

8 

 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Appendix  2:  Alpha  Trains’  Environmental,  Social  and  Governance  Policy 

  

 

9 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Appendix 3: Alpha Trains’ Voluntary Environmental and Social Criteria 
 
Alpha  Trains’  asset  selection  process  for  new  rolling  stock  is  including  the  following  social  and 
environmental aspects: 
 

  High  Innovation  and  Engineering  standard:  All  passenger  trains  owned  by  Alpha  Trains  were 
engineered and manufactured in Germany which has one of the most advanced and innovative 
railway supply industries as well as a significant track record in providing modern, light and energy 
efficient rolling stock;  

  Rolling stock complies with the latest noise protection regulations;  
  Manufacturers adhere to high environmental and labour standards with certified manufacturing 

processes in place and apply the latest energy saving and recycling technology, for instance: 
-  Modern,  energy  efficient  traction  power  systems  with  up-to-date  energy  recovery 

technology;  

-  Modern,  energy efficient  sub  systems,  for  instance  decentralised  air  conditioning  and  LED 
lighting  technology  as  well  as  modern  technology  providing  low  energy  overnight  parking 
possibilities;  
Energy meters allowing for exact energy consumption supervision;  

- 
-  Driver assistance systems which improve economical driving;  
-  High recycling rate of over 95%.  

 

 
 
 
 

 
 

10 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

 
Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

16 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics is the largest independent provider of sustainability 
research, analysis, and services to investors. We serve over 250 
institutional investors which include some of the world's largest asset 
owners and asset managers. Through over 20 years of experience 
serving the responsible investment (RI) market, we have gained a 
reputation for providing high-quality ESG research solutions and 
excellent client service. 

Sustainalytics is headed by seasoned professionals in the field of 
business, finance, and sustainability, with a wealth of experience in the 
Responsible Investment area. After more than 20 years of local 
experience and expertise in the Responsible Investment (RI) market 
Sustainalytics has developed a comprehensive understanding of trends 
and best practices and a solid process to assist organisations in 
integrating ESG considerations into their policies and strategies. We 
have worked with some of the world’s financial institutions including 
pension plans, investment managers and banks providing customised 
support to help them achieve their RI objectives. Clients include ABN 
AMRO, APG, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank, ING Bank, Lombard 
Odier, Lloyds Bank, Triodos Bank, UBS and over 250 other financial 
institutions and organisations. 

Sustainalytics now has a staff of 250 employees globally, including over 
120 analysts, with operations in Amsterdam, Boston, Bucharest, 
Frankfurt, New York, Paris, London, Singapore, Sydney, Timisoara, and 
Toronto, and representation in Brussels and Washington DC. 

In 2015, Sustainalytics was named the Best 
SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
GlobalCapital. In December 2014, for the 
third year in a row, Sustainalytics was 
named best sustainable and responsible 
investment research firm in the 
Independent Research in Responsible 
Investment (IRRI) Survey, conducted by 
Thomson Reuters and SRI-CONNECT.  

 
 

17 

