 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 MTR CORPORATION LIMITED  

GREEN BOND 

 

 

 

 
 
 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

October 14th, 2016 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 

Trisha Taneja (Toronto) 

Tim Langer (London) 

James Hawrylak (Tokyo) 

Advisor, Advisory Services 

trisha.taneja@sustainalytics.com 

(+1) 647 317 3695 

Advisor, Institutional Relations 
tim.langer@sustainalytics.com 
(+44) 20 3695 9528 

Director, Institutional Relations 
james.hawrylak@sustainalytics.com 
(+81) 3 4589 4886 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Vikram Puppala  

Vikram Puppala  

Vikram Puppala  

© Sustainalytics 2016 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

1.  Preface 

2. 

Introduction 

3.  Framework overview 
3.1  Use of Proceeds 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
3.3  Management of Proceeds 
3.4  Reporting 

4  Sustainalytics’ Opinion 

Impact of Use of Proceeds 

Appendices 

Appendix 1: Alignment with Green Bond Principles (GBP) 
Appendix 2: MTR’s overall ESG performance (as assessed by Sustainalytics) 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

1 

3 

3 

4 
4 
7 
7 
8 

9 
10 

12 
12 
17 

19 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

1. PREFACE 
MTR  Corporation  Limited  (“MTR”)  and  its  subsidiaries  (“MTR  Group  Entities”)  are  planning  to  issue 
multiple green bonds under its Green Bond Framework to finance projects aligned with MTR sustainability 
objectives.  MTR  has  engaged  Sustainalytics  to  provide  a  second  opinion  on  the  framework  and  its 
environmental  credentials.  As  part  of  this  engagement,  Sustainalytics  held  conversations  with  various 
members of MTR’s management team to understand the sustainability impact of their business processes 
and  planned  use  of  proceeds  for  the  bond  issuance.  Sustainalytics  also  reviewed  relevant  public  and 
internal documents. This document contains two sections: Framework Overview – a summary of the MTR 
green bond framework; and Sustainalytics’ Opinion – an opinion on the framework.  
 
2. INTRODUCTION 
MTR is one of the world's leading railway operators carrying an average weekday patronage of over 5.5 
million in Hong Kong, and together with its subsidiary and associate companies over 5 million passengers 
overseas. 
 
Established in 1975, MTR was formerly a Hong Kong government-owned entity constructing and operating 
an  urban  metro  system  to  help  meet  Hong  Kong's  public  transport  requirements.  MTR  now  has  a 
diversified  business  profile  focusing  on  railway  construction  and  operations,  station  commercial, 
residential  and  commercial  property  development,  property  investment  and  management,  and 
international consultancy services. MTR’s notable railway investment and operations include the Hong 
Kong  railway  network,  the  Hong  Kong  Airport  Express  and  several  railway  lines  in  Beijing,  Shenzhen, 
London, Melbourne and Stockholm. MTR’s shares have been listed on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong 
since 2000 with the Hong Kong SAR Government owning 75.40% of its shares as at the end of June 2016. 
 
MTR’s vision is to be a leading multinational company that connects and grows communities, with a focus 
on both the social and environmental benefits of rail and property networks to power the sustainable 
development of the communities it operates in and the wider society to which it belongs.  
 
In its Sustainability Report, MTR states that it “strives to become one of the  most resource-efficient and 
ecologically sustainable railway and property companies in the world.” In line with this overarching goal, 
MTR has developed a sustainability strategy that includes a Corporate Sustainability Policy, a Corporate 
Responsibility Policy, a Corporate Biodiversity Policy, and a commitment to combating climate change. 
Through  these  commitments,  MTR  has  currently  identified  the  following  broad  environmental 
sustainability  objectives:  (i)  increase  energy  efficiency;  (ii)  use  natural  resources  sustainably;  and  (iii) 
mitigate and adapt to climate change.  
 
To invest in projects that further MTR’s sustainability commitments, the company is planning to 
issue  green  bonds  to  finance  projects  focussed  on  low  carbon  transportation,  energy  efficiency, 
sustainable  transit  stations  and  real  estate  properties,  adaptation  to  climate  change,  biodiversity  and 
conservation, water management, and pollution prevention that are eligible according to the eligibility 
criteria outlined in the Use of Proceeds section of the Framework Overview.     
 

 

 

3 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

3. FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 
The following section summarizes MTR’s green bond framework including the use of proceeds, process 
for project selection, the management of proceeds, and reporting. 
 
3.1   Use of Proceeds 
The proceeds of MTR Green Bonds will be allocated towards funding or refinancing, in whole or in part, 
MTR projects that meet the following eligibility criteria. In addition to defining eligibility criteria for the 
framework, MTR has committed that where project review and evaluation has been completed and the 
allocation of proceeds has been determined at time of issuance, it will disclose the specific projects funded 
through bond proceeds, and the relevant eligibility criteria the funded projects will fall under, on issuance 
of each green bond. 
 
Eligibility Criteria 
 

1.  LOW CARBON TRANSPORTATION 

 

Proceeds may be allocated towards (i) projects to build or operate electric, hybrid, public, urban metro, 
heavy or light rail, non-motorized, multi-modal transportation. Examples of projects funded include 
construction of new lines, network expansion of metro/heavy rail/light rail, “last mile” solutions (for 
example, buses and other potentially non-motorized transport); expansions and upgrades that result 
in improved service levels; (ii) projects that create or construct infrastructure to support low carbon 
transportation. Examples of projects funded include support infrastructure on capacity enhancements 
of metro/heavy rail/light rail (for example, signaling equipment, platform gates); network interfaces 
including  passenger  access,  ancillary  passenger  services,  facilities  required  for  the  safe,  clean  and 
efficient operation of the network, utilities and other enabling infrastructure. 

 

The context: In its 2015 Sustainability Report, MTR states a commitment to mitigate climate change 
by providing low carbon transportation. MTR aims to realize this commitment through the provision 
of electrically powered mass  transit  railway, including the building of new networks, expansion of 
current networks, and construction of supporting infrastructure. 

2.  ENERGY EFFICIENCY 

 

Proceeds may be allocated towards the design, manufacture and installation of systems, products 
and technology that reduce energy consumption or mitigate greenhouse gas emissions in (a) railway 
construction and operation; (b) property management. 
 

a.  ENERGY EFFICIENCY IN RAILWAY CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATION 

This includes allocation towards projects that: 
 
  Enable energy performance monitoring and modelling such as design and installation 

of computer controls, sensors, or information systems 

4 

 

 

 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

 

  Optimise  the  amount  and timing of  energy consumption  and minimise  peak  loads 
such as design and installation of metering, peak load shedding, regenerative braking 
systems, or trackside energy storage system 

  Deployment of new and energy-efficient trains, light rail vehicles and buses 

The  context:  MTR  has  a  publicly  available  Climate  Change  Statement  in  which  the 
organisation commits to a continuous reduction in its Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. 
The  majority  of  MTR’s  GHG  emissions  stem  from  purchased  energy  for  its  railway 
construction and operations as well as property management operations. With respect to 
energy  efficiency  in  its  railway  construction  and  operations,  MTR  has  set  a  target  to 
reduce  the  amount  of  electricity  consumed  per  passenger-kilometer  in  its  heavy  rail 
network by 21% as compared to the 2008 levels by 2020. In line with this commitment, 
energy efficiency in railway construction and operation is an important sustainability goal 
for MTR. 
 

b.  ENERGY EFFICIENCY IN PROPERTY MANAGEMENT 

This includes allocation towards projects that: 
 
  Have the objective of installation, maintenance, or replacement of energy efficient 

systems/technologies, such as heating, ventilation, air-conditioning, cooling, lighting 
and electrical equipment in properties 

 
The  context:  MTR  is  a  signatory  of  the  World  Business  Council  for  Sustainable 
Development Manifesto for Energy Efficiency in Buildings. Being a signatory requires MTR 
to set and report to an energy efficiency target.  MTR has disclosed that it will report on 
its  progress  towards this target starting in 2017. In line  with this commitment, energy 
efficiency in property management is an important sustainability goal for MTR.  

 

 

 

3.  SUSTAINABLE TRANSIT STATIONS AND REAL ESTATE PROPERTIES  

 

Proceeds may be allocated towards financing existing or new buildings that have received, or expects 
to  receive  based on  its  design,  construction  and operational  plans,  certification  according  to third 
party verified green building standards.  Eligible third party certifications that verify green building 
standards are:  LEED, BEAM, BREEAM and ISCA and other appropriate and equivalent standards1 in 
the relevant jurisdictions where MTR has its operations.  
 
The context: In addition to its commitment to reduce GHG emissions, MTR also has a commitment to 
certify  new  residential  property  developments  with  a  minimum  Hong  Kong  BEAM  Plus  Gold 
certification, where this standard is relevant. In line with these commitments, green buildings are an 
important climate change mitigation goal for MTR.   

 
1 MTR considers a standard equivalent if it requires, at minimum, a demonstration of energy and water efficiency in certified buildings. 

 

 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

4.  ADAPTATION TO CLIMATE CHANGE 

Proceeds may be allocated towards financing projects for the design, construction, maintenance and 
upgrades of infrastructure for adapting to extreme weather events caused by climate change. This 
includes,  but  is  not  limited  to,  infrastructure  for  flood  prevention,  flood  defence,  or  storm  water 
management. Examples of such projects include maintenance of wetlands and lagoons; construction 
of retention berms, reservoirs, sluice gates, drainage systems, tunnels and channels; infrastructure to 
protect from heat-stress caused by increased temperatures and landslide prevention. 
 
The  context:  MTR  has  a  publicly  available  Climate  Change  Statement  in  which  the  organisation 
commits  to  adapting  to  risks  stemming  from  climate  change.  MTR  has  identified  heavy  rain  and 
flooding and rising temperatures as two key risks to its railway operations. The company discloses 
that it regularly reviews its Design Standard Manual for new railway projects and its existing railway 
infrastructure  on  a  regular  basis  to  integrate  adaptation  to  extreme  weather  events.  As  such, 
adaptation to climate change is an important and ongoing sustainability objective for MTR.  
 
5.  BIODIVERSITY AND CONSERVATION  
 
Proceeds may be allocated towards reforestation, and ecological restoration of forests and wetlands, 
and soil remediation.  

 

The context: MTR has a publicly available Corporate Responsibility Policy, in which it states that the 
company has a commitment to protecting the environment. This policy includes a commitment to 
protect  natural  habitats  and  areas  with  high  ecological  sensitivity  during  the  construction  of  new 
railway  projects.  In  line  with  this  commitment,  biodiversity  and  conservation  is  an  important 
sustainability goal for MTR to manage its business operation risks.  

6.  WATER MANAGEMENT 

Proceeds  may  be  allocated  towards  rainwater  collection,  installation/upgrade  of  technologies  to 
increase water efficiency, alternatively sourced water treatment facilities. 
 
The context: MTR discloses in its sustainability report that water is an important component of their 
railway operations business, and is used for cleaning trains, and for construction of infrastructure and 
stations. Due to the nature of its business operations and the dependency of Hong Kong on a single 
river  basin  for  80%  of  its  water  supply,  MTR  recognizes  a  water  supply  risk.  As  such,  water 
management is an important sustainability goal for the company.  

7.  WASTE MANAGEMENT  
  
Proceeds may be allocated towards waste management support infrastructure within MTR premises 
such  as  recycling  collection  areas,  and  technologies  that  enable  the  separation,  handling  and 
processing of waste to recycled materials. 

6 

 

 

 

 

 

 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

 
The context: MTR has a publicly available Corporate Responsibility Policy, in which it states that the 
company has a commitment  to preventing pollution caused by waste  generated from both MTR’s 
railway and property management operations.  

 

8.  POLLUTION PREVENTION: IMPROVEMENT OF AIR QUALITY AND NOISE REDUCTION 
 
Proceeds may be  allocated towards  technologies related to enhancing air quality such as,  but  not 
limited  to,  technologies  that  increase  air  circulation  and  air  filtration;  and  noise  reduction 
technologies such as noise barriers, modification of turnouts, rail dampers and insulation booths. 
 
The  context:  MTR’s  Corporate  Responsibility  Policy  also  states  a  commitment  to  preventing  air 
pollution caused by MTR trains at railway stations. Additionally, MTR’s sustainability report outlines 
a commitment to noise mitigation initiatives, as required by environmental regulators in Hong Kong. 
Given this commitment, MTR has identified pollution prevention through improvement of air quality 
and noise reduction as sustainability objectives.   

 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
Projects will be selected for funding through bond proceeds if they fall under one or more of the use of 
proceeds  eligibility  criteria  outlined  in  section  3.1.  MTR’s  Treasury  Department  and  the  Corporate 
Responsibility Department will review and approve (as appropriate) each proposed use of proceeds based 
on  this  evaluation.  Additionally,  projects  will  also  be  evaluated  by  MTR’s  Corporate  Responsibility 
Department  for  their  alignment  with  MTR’s  sustainability  framework  and  potential  to  reduce 
environmental impacts or create positive environmental benefits.  
 

3.3        Management of Proceeds  
The proceeds of each MTR Green Bond will be credited to the general funding account of the MTR issuing 
entity. MTR will maintain a Green Bond Register to track the use of proceeds for each MTR Green Bond 
issuance. The Register will contain details of MTR Green Bonds issued and projects identified for funding 
through earmarking of proceeds of each MTR Green Bond. The Register will contain, for each MTR Green 
Bond issued, information on:  
 
MTR Green Bond details, including ISIN, the principal amount outstanding, pricing date, and maturity;  

(i) 

Earmarking of proceeds to eligible projects, including: 
a.  Eligible investment category of eligible project funded,  
b.  Summary details of eligible project funded  
c.  Amount allocated to eligible project  
d. 

Issuer estimate of the impact of the eligible project  

 
Pending allocation to eligible projects, proceeds may be invested in accordance with MTR’s Investment 
Guidelines, including in cash and money market instruments, or used to repay existing borrowings under 
MTR’s general credit facilities, in whole or part.  
 

 

 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

3.4    Reporting  
Allocation and Impact Reporting  
MTR  has  committed  to  preparing  an  annual  Green Bond  Report  that  will  report  on  both  allocation of 
proceeds and the impact of proceeds. The Green Bond Report will be published on the MTR website and 
within the MTR Sustainability Report annually, throughout the term of each green bond issued under this 
framework.  The  Green Bond Report will be  reviewed by the MTR Executive  Committee.  MTR  has also 
committed to engage an independent third party to review the allocation of proceeds in the Green Bond 
Report. 
 
Annually, the Green Bond Report will disclose:  
 

(i)  A list of MTR green bonds outstanding, including the issuing entity, ISIN Reference and 

outstanding amounts at the beginning and end of the annual period 

(ii)  MTR green bonds issued and repaid/redeemed during the annual period  
(iii) Details of allocation of proceeds for each MTR green bond in issuance during the annual period, 

including:  

a.  Amount of proceeds allocated, in aggregate, to all projects under each eligibility 

criterion  

b.  Description of the projects funded under each eligibility criterion  
c.  Balance of unallocated proceeds at the end of the reporting period  

(iv) When feasible, an estimate of the impact of projects funded through the Key Performance 

Indicators (KPIs) specified in Table 1.  

 
Table 1: KPIs by Eligibility Criterion 

Eligibility Criterion 
Low Carbon Transportation 
 
Energy Efficiency 
 
Sustainable transit stations and real estate 
properties 
 
Water Management 
 
Biodiversity and Conservation 
Waste Management 

KPI 
Tons of fuel saved/reduced 
Tons CO2 emissions or equivalent avoided 
Kwh saved/reduced 
Tons CO2 emissions or equivalent avoided 
Kwh saved/reduced 
Tons CO2 emissions or equivalent avoided 

Cubic meter of water (m³) saved / reduced 
Cubic meter of water (m³) collected / stored / treated 
Hectares of land/area reforested or protected  
Tons of waste reduced or recycled 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

4  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
A strong and comprehensive environmental strategy:  
MTR has a comprehensive environmental strategy, as supported by the company’s commitments in its 
Code of Conduct, Corporate Sustainability Policy, Corporate Responsibility Policy, Corporate Biodiversity 
Policy, and Climate Change Statement. Through these statements and policies, MTR makes a commitment 
to  address  a  wide  range  of  environmental  risks  stemming  from  its  business  operations,  ranging  from 
pollution prevention to climate change mitigation and adaptation.     
 
In addition to its comprehensive nature, Sustainalytics has assessed MTR’s overall environmental strategy 
to  be  robust.  The  strength  of  this  strategy  derives  from  three  factors:  (i)  MTR’s  environmental  policy 
includes a commitment not only to improve the environmental performance of its own operations, but 
also  to  promote  greater  environmental  responsibility  among  its  stakeholders  including  employees, 
contractors and suppliers; (ii) MTR’s environmental strategy is approved by the board of directors; and 
(iii) MTR regularly reports on its progress towards achieving its commitments and targets.  
 
Track record of delivering on its commitments:  
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that MTR’s track record is in line with its commitments. An example of this 
is MTR’s “Rail Gen 2.0” initiative that launched in early 2016. MTR states that a key focus of the “Rail Gen 
2.0” initiative is to enhance its railway service, enabling an increase in the use of its network. This initiative 
also integrates the improvement of the company’s environmental performance, in accordance with the 
commitments outlined in its various policies and statements, with its business operations. For example, 
as a part of the “Rail Gen 2.0” initiative, MTR is replacing 160 chillers in stations and depots with more 
energy efficient models. Some other examples of MTR’s performance through the “Rail Gen 2.0” initiative 
include retrofitting platform gates in operational railways, and installation of new trains and signalling 
systems in order to increase capacity and/or energy efficiency of its rail operations.  
 
Well positioned to mitigate common environmental and social risks:  
Sustainalytics recognizes common environmental and social risks posed by infrastructure development 
projects, such as pollution, loss of biodiversity, and poor health and safety conditions for construction 
workers.  However,  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  MTR  is  well  positioned  to  mitigate  these  risks 
through its robust internal processes.  
 
With  respect  to  mitigating  environmental  risks,  Sustainalytics  reviewed  internal  MTR  documents  that 
reflect  a  robust  internal  process  for  environmental  site  management.  The  robustness  of  this  process 
derives from: (i) the need for a mandatory environmental impact assessment for all projects in order to 
receive approval from the EPD; (ii) continuous monitoring and audits of environmental impact; and (iii) 
an agreement that requires mandatory Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and Waste Management 
Plan (WMP) for all construction and demolition carried out by MTR contractors.  
 
With respect to mitigating social risks, MTR has in place a Human and Labour Rights requirement that 
aligns with international norms such as the United Nations (UN) Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 
and  the  UN  Global  Compact.  The  requirement  addresses  several  areas,  including  the  use  of  child  and 
forced labour, health and safety, and wages of workers for all MTR suppliers, contractors, and consultants. 

 

 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Additionally, MTR also engages external auditors to evaluate safety standards on its construction sites.  
Lastly,  MTR  has  in  place  a  comprehensive  stakeholder  engagement  process  that  identifies  all 
stakeholders, and maintains an issue register to capture current and anticipated stakeholder concerns 
and engagements. The stakeholder  engagement process also includes a step to regularly monitor and 
update the list of identified stakeholders.  
 
Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  environmental  and  social  risk  mitigation  processes  described 
above  are  comprehensive  and  strong,  and  that MTR  is  well  positioned  to  mitigate  the  risks  identified 
above.  
 
Impact of Use of Proceeds 
In  general,  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  all  the  use  of  proceeds  outlined  by  MTR  have  an 
environmental benefit, specifically in the context of Hong Kong. Sustainalytics has outlined the contextual 
relevance of this impact for Hong Kong for the low carbon transportation and energy efficiency criteria in 
the sections below. In addition, Sustainalytics’ opinion on three specific eligibility criteria – sustainable 
transit stations and real estate properties, climate change adaptation and noise pollution – are detailed 
in the paragraphs below.  
 
With respect to sustainable transit stations and real estate properties, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that 
although all levels of LEED, BEAM, BREEAM and equivalent certifications result in additional energy and 
water efficiency, funding the equivalent of Hong Kong BEAM Plus Gold or Platinum/LEED Gold or Platinum 
certified buildings represents best practice, and MTR should make best efforts to achieve this standard.  
MTR already has a commitment to certify new residential property developments with a minimum Hong 
Kong BEAM Plus Gold certification, where this standard is relevant. It has demonstrated meeting this best 
practice standard.  
  
With  respect  to  climate  change  adaptation,  Sustainalytics  has  reviewed  internal  MTR  documents  that 
confirm that the company has conducted a study to identify risks posed by climate change. The study 
specifically identifies flooding due to increased rainfall and rising sea levels, as well as increased landslides, 
as risks faced by various MTR sites due to climate change. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that basing the 
adaptation eligibility criterion on specific risk studies strengthens the impact of the use of proceeds, as it 
establishes a clear case that the adaptation infrastructure is being funded as a direct response to climate 
change risks.  
 
While Sustainalytics recognizes that prevention of noise pollution can be considered to have clearer links 
to  health  and  social  impacts,  noise  pollution  is  classified  by  the  Hong  Kong  Environmental  Protection 
Department  (EPD)  as  an  environmental  issue.  Given the  contextual  relevance  of  noise  pollution  as  an 
environmental issue in Hong Kong, projects related to noise pollution have been included under MTR’s 
eligibility criteria for this bond.  
 
Importance of energy efficiency in mitigating climate change in Hong Kong 
Hong Kong is a service-based city and does not have energy-intensive industries. Electricity accounts for 
54%  of  the  city’s  total  energy  consumption.  Since  1997,  the  Hong  Kong  government  banned  the 
construction of new coal-fired generating units in favour of natural gas, which emits less greenhouse gas 

 

 

10 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

per unit of electricity produced. Nonetheless, the major source of power generation in Hong Kong remains 
fossil  fuels.  As  a  result,  as  per  the  Hong  Kong  Government’s  EPD,  electricity  generation  is  the  largest 
source of local GHG emissions, accounting for about 68% of the total.  
 
Hong Kong’s access to alternative energy sources is limited, due to its geographical conditions and the 
constraint of land areas.  Although  companies in Hong Kong are  exploring the feasibility of developing 
large-scale offshore wind farms, it is estimated to meet merely 1 to 2% of total electricity demand by 
2020. Hong Kong’s current targets are to reduce the carbon intensity by 50-60% from the 2005 level by 
2020; and to reduce the city’s energy intensity from the 2005 level by 40% by 2025. Therefore, energy 
efficiency becomes top priority in mitigating climate change.  With buildings accounting for 89% of the 
total electricity consumption at end-use level in Hong Kong (and 60% of GHGs), MTR’s effort to promote 
energy efficiency of its constructions and existing properties would have the potential to make significant 
contributions to the reduction of Hong Kong’s overall energy and carbon intensities. In addition, given 
MTR is the largest single electricity user in Hong Kong2, due to its railway operations, enhancing energy 
efficiency of its railway system would also generate significant impact on energy conservation in Hong 
Kong. 
 
Importance of low carbon transportation in mitigating climate change in Hong Kong 
Hong Kong is a highly populated city, with average of over 12 million passenger journeys made on public 
transport every day (including railways, trams, buses, minibuses, taxis and ferries).  Transportation is the 
second largest source of GHG emissions, representing about 17% of the total, mainly arising from fuel 
usage  in  commercial  diesel  vehicles  and  petrol  private  cars 3.  Over  the  past  10  years,  the  number  of 
licensed private cars has increased dramatically from 345,000 in 2004 to about 495,000 in 2014, which 
led to an overall rise in the total number of vehicles.  
 
The most  direct and effective way to mitigate  carbon emissions from transportation  in the  context of 
Hong Kong is to promote public transport, including buses, but especially rail. The government is planning 
to  extensively  expand  the  city’s  rail  system,  aiming  to  increase  railway’s  share  in  the  public  transport 
patronage to 45% ~ 50% by 20312. By then, 75% of Hong Kong’s population will have convenient access 
to rail as a means of daily transport. While more electricity will be needed to power all these new rail-
lines, in total it will account for a very small share of Hong Kong’s overall electricity consumption, and 
therefore rail transport is still the lowest carbon way to provide mass mobility. Given this scenario, it is 
clear  that  MTR  has  a  large  role  to  play  in  Hong  Kong  in  mitigating  carbon  emissions  from  the 
transportation sector.  
 
Alignment with Green Bond Principles 2016  
Sustainalytics  has  determined  that  MTR’s  green  bond  aligns  with  the  four  pillars  of  the  Green  Bond 
Principles, and is credible and robust. See Appendix 1 for details.  
 
 
 
 
2 http://www.enb.gov.hk/sites/default/files/pdf/EnergySavingPlanEn.pdf  
3 http://www.enb.gov.hk/sites/default/files/pdf/ClimateChangeEng.pdf  

 

 

11 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Appendix 2: MTR’s overall ESG performance (as assessed by Sustainalytics)  
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

17 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analysed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

18 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics is the largest independent provider of sustainability 
research, analysis, and services to investors. We serve over 250 
institutional investors which include some of the world's largest asset 
owners and asset managers. Through over 20 years of experience 
serving the responsible investment (RI) market, we have gained a 
reputation for providing high-quality ESG research solutions and 
excellent client service. 

Sustainalytics is headed by seasoned professionals in the field of 
business, finance, and sustainability, with a wealth of experience in the 
Responsible Investment area. After more than 20 years of local 
experience and expertise in the Responsible Investment (RI) market 
Sustainalytics has developed a comprehensive understanding of trends 
and best practices and a solid process to assist organisations in 
integrating ESG considerations into their policies and strategies. We 
have worked with some of the world’s financial institutions including 
pension plans, investment managers and banks providing customised 
support to help them achieve their RI objectives. Clients include ABN 
AMRO, APG, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank, ING Bank, Lombard 
Odier, Lloyds Bank, Triodos Bank, UBS and over 250 other financial 
institutions and organisations. 

Sustainalytics now has a staff of 250 employees globally, including over 
120 analysts, with operations in Amsterdam, Boston, Bucharest, 
Frankfurt, New York, Paris, London, Singapore, Sydney, Timisoara, and 
Toronto, and representation in Brussels and Washington DC. 

In 2015, Sustainalytics was named the Best 
SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
GlobalCapital. In December 2014, for the 
third year in a row, Sustainalytics was 
named best sustainable and responsible 
investment research firm in the 
Independent Research in Responsible 
Investment (IRRI) Survey, conducted by 
Thomson Reuters and SRI-CONNECT.  

 

 

19 

