 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 MITSUBISHI UFJ FINANCIAL 

GROUP 

GREEN BOND 

 

 

 

 
 
 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

September 1st, 2016 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 

Farnam Bidgoli (London) 

Trisha Taneja (Toronto) 

Dominic Chan (Singapore) 

Manager, Advisory Services  
farnam.bidgoli@sustainalytics.com 
(+44) 20 3514 3127 

Advisor, Advisory Services  

trisha.taneja@sustainalytics.com 

(+1) 647 317 3695 

Senior Advisor, Institutional Relations   
dominic.chan@sustainalytics.com 
(+65) 3158 3796 

 

 
 

Vikram Puppala  

Manager,  

 
 

Vikram Puppala  

Manager,  

 
 

Vikram Puppala  

Manager,  

© Sustainalytics 2016 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

1.  Preface 

2. 

Introduction 

3.  Framework overview 
3.1  Use of Proceeds 
3.2  Process for Project Evaluation and Selection 
3.3  Management of Proceeds 
3.4  Reporting 

4.  Sustainalytics’ opinion 

Conclusion 

APPENDICES 

Appendix 1: The Ten Equator Principles 
Appendix 2: Alignment with Green Bond Principles 2016 

ABOUT SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

1 

3 

3 

4 
4 
4 
5 
5 

6 
8 

9 
9 
10 

16 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

1. PREFACE 
 
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group (MUFG) is planning to issue a green bond to finance lending to renewable 
energy  projects.  MUFG  has  engaged  Sustainalytics  to  provide  a  second  opinion  on  its  green  bond 
framework  and  the  bond’s  environmental  credentials.  As  part  of  this  engagement,  Sustainalytics  held 
conversations  with  various  members  of  MUFG’s  management  team  to  understand  the  sustainability 
impact of their business processes and planned use of proceeds for the bond issuance. Sustainalytics also 
reviewed  relevant  public  and  internal  documents.  This  document  contains  two  sections:  Framework 
Overview – a summary of the MUFG green bond framework; and Sustainalytics’ Opinion – an opinion on 
the framework.  
  
2. INTRODUCTION 
 
MUFG,  through  its  subsidiaries,  provides  financial  services  in  Japan  and  internationally.  It  operates  in 
several segments, including Retail Banking, Corporate Banking, Trust Assets, and Global Business Group.  
 
MUFG’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy is focused on three pillars that it has assessed as most 
important  to  business  success  and  societal  stakeholders:  Customers,  Community,  and  Responsible 
Finance. The Responsible Finance pillar explicitly references MUFG’s underlying objective to “contribute 
to the realization of a sustainable environment and society through its financial business.” MUFG aims to 
realize  this  objective  through  the  (i)  dissemination  of  renewable  energy;  (ii)  public-private  financial 
partnerships; (iii) adoption and adherence to the Equator Principles, a risk management framework to 
determine,  assess  and  manage  environmental  and  social  risks  and  impacts  in  projects;  (iv)  consulting 
services related to climate change mitigation;  and (v) promotion of ESG investment.   Particularly, the 
dissemination of renewable energy is a key business activity for MUFG. MUFG views financing renewable 
energy as a way to integrate the CSR pillar of Responsible Finance into its business operations. In Financial 
Year (FY) 2015, MUFG was ranked second in the global project finance lead arranger table for renewable 
energy by Bloomberg New Energy Finance. In FY 2015, MUFG originated USD 2,639.1 million in renewable 
energy project finance loans.1   
 
To further the Responsible Finance pillar of its CSR policy, particularly the activity centered on promotion 
and dissemination of renewable energy, MUFG is planning to issue a green bond to finance lending to 
renewable energy projects. While the issuing entity will be MUFG, the entity that will manage lending to 
Eligible Green Projects will be the Bank of Tokyo- Mitsubishi UFJ (BTMU), a wholly owned subsidiary of 
MUFG. All new and existing projects financed through bond proceeds must be eligible according to the 
Use of Proceeds criteria outlined in the Framework Overview below.  
 
 

 
1 The Bloomberg New Energy Finance table is disclosed on the MUFG website: 
http://www.mufg.jp/english/csr/juten/sustainability/saiseikanou/   

 

 

3 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

3. FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 
 
Proceeds  from  MUFG’s  green  bond  will  be  used  to  finance  projects  focused  on  the  generation  of 
renewable energy, specifically solar and wind energy.  The following section summarizes MUFG’s green 
bond  framework  including  the  use  of  proceeds,  process  for  project  selection,  the  management  of 
proceeds, and reporting. 
 
3.1   Use of Proceeds 
MUFG will allocate an amount equal to the net proceeds from the sale of the green bond to fund 
projects that are eligible as per the criterion specified below.  
 
3.1.1  Eligibility Criterion 
In order for a project to be funded through green bond proceeds, the project must meet the following 
eligibility criterion:  
 

  Expenditures related to the development construction, operation, or expansion of facilities for 
new and existing solar and wind projects that are (i) determined as Category B or Category C in 
accordance with the Equator Principles, and (ii) signed since September 2014.  

 

As per the Equator Principles, Category A projects have potential significant adverse environmental and 
social  risks  and/or  impacts  that  are  diverse,  irreversible  or  unprecedented.    Category  B  projects  have 
limited  adverse  environmental  and  social  risks  and/or  impacts  that are few  in number,  generally  site-
specific, largely reversible and readily addressed through mitigation measures. Category C projects have 
minimal or no adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts.2 Proceeds of the green bond may 
be  allocated  to  lending  to  new  and  existing  Category  B  or  C  renewable  energy projects,  such  as  solar 
thermal  power  generation,  solar  photovoltaic  power  generation  and  onshore  and  offshore wind  farm 
projects.  

 

3.2  Process for Project Evaluation and Selection  
All renewable energy projects financed through bond proceeds are evaluated for financial viability by the 
BTMU  Structured  Finance  Division.  Additionally,  Eligible  Green  Projects  financed  through  green  bond 
proceeds are evaluated by the Social and Environmental Risk Assessment Office of BTMU’s Structured 
Finance Division for their alignment with the eligibility criterion. As noted above, this includes selecting 
projects that are categorised as Category B or Category C in accordance with the Equator Principles, i.e. 
projects that have limited or minimal adverse environmental and social risks and impacts.  
 
BTMU categorises projects as A, B or C based on its internal environmental and social  risk assessment 
process. This process is aligned with the ten Equator Principles (please see Appendix 2 for a complete list 
of the Equator Principles).   As a part of this process, BTMU evaluates a project for minimal, limited or 
significant  potential  adverse  environmental  and  social  impact  based  on  the  International  Finance 
 
2 The Equator Principles:  http://www.equator-principles.com/ 

 

 

4 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Corporation  (IFC)’s  eight  Performance  Standards  on  Environmental  and  Social  Sustainability.  For  each 
Performance Standard where limited or significant risk is identified, BTMU’s internal process requires the 
Social  and  Environmental  Risk  Assessment  Office  to  work  in  partnership  with  its  clients  to  assess  and 
manage  these  environmental  and  social  risks  and  impacts.  The  final  project  categorisation  awarded 
through  this  process,  and  alignment  of  the  project  selection  process  with  the  Equator  Principles  is 
reviewed  by  PricewaterhouseCoopers  Sustainability  Co.,  Ltd.    As  an  example,  the  most  recent 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Sustainability Assurance report can be found on the MUFG website (please see 
link in footnote).3  
 

3.3        Management of Proceeds  
While the bond will be issued by MUFG, proceeds will be loaned on to BTMU, a wholly owned subsidiary 
of MUFG. As soon as MUFG receives the proceeds of the bond, MUFG will remit an amount equivalent to 
the proceeds to BTMU, based on a loan agreement made between MUFG and BTMU. MUFG reports that 
it will monitor and track the allocation of proceeds to Eligible Green Projects using BTMU’s internal loan 
management system. This loan management system generates a spreadsheet listing all loans. BTMU uses 
the spreadsheet to identify and tag loans that are eligible for funding through bond proceeds. Such loans 
are identified and tagged by using internal project ID codes. Pending allocation of an amount equal to the 
net proceeds to Eligible Green Projects, BTMU is expected to invest an amount equal to any unallocated 
balance of such net proceeds in cash, cash equivalents and/or marketable securities.  
 
3.4    Reporting  
Allocation Reporting and Compliance Review 
MUFG has confirmed that it will, on an annual basis throughout the term of the bond, or until the proceeds 
are fully allocated, disclose attestations by management that confirm allocation of proceeds to Eligible 
Green Projects. Allocation of proceeds in these attestations will be disclosed in aggregate, on a project 
portfolio  basis.  These  attestations  will  be  disclosed  on  the  MUFG  website.  In  addition,  MUFG  has 
committed  to  undertaking  an  annual  compliance  review  of  funded  projects  with  an  independent 
consultant with recognized expertise in environmental and social issues. Such a consultant will review a 
broad sample of projects from the total allocated projects in order to determine whether they meet the 
eligibility criteria defined in the framework. The consultant will also provide a letter stating the results of 
the compliance review, which MUFG may disclose publicly on its website. This compliance review will take 
place annually throughout the term of the bond, or until the proceeds are fully allocated.  
 
Impact Reporting 
MUFG has committed to publishing an impact report annually, throughout the term of the bond, that will 
report on the following impact metrics: kWh of power generated from renewable energy produced by 
Eligible  Green  Projects,  and  prospective  carbon  offset  from  Eligible  Green  Projects,  in  tonnes  of  CO2 
equivalent. These metrics will be disclosed in aggregate, on a project portfolio basis. All impact reporting 
will be disclosed on the MUFG website.  
 
 

 
3 The most recent PricewaterhouseCoopers Sustainability Assurance report can be found at the link below: 
http://www.mufg.jp/english/csr/juten/sustainability/sekidou/pdf/independent_assurance.pdf 

 

 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

4. SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
 
A strong Responsible Finance policy realized through sustainable products & services 
Sustainalytics’ Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) research assesses MUFG as having a strong 
environmental policy, as seen in the Responsible Finance pillar of its CSR policy. The strength of this policy 
lies  in  MUFG’s  commitment  to  go  beyond  the  environmental  and  social  risk  assessment  of  its  own 
financing by encouraging the broader adoption of sustainable practices through its products and services. 
As per Sustainalytics’ ESG research and analysis, this strength is demonstrated through three particular 
MUFG  commitments  to  (i)  promote  greater  environmental  responsibility  through  its  activities,  (ii) 
encourage  the  diffusion  of  environmentally  friendly  technologies,  and  (iii)  report  regularly  on 
environmental issues.  
 
MUFG realizes the above three commitments through offering sustainable products and services. These 
include loan products that offer subsidies to fund activities relating to energy conservation and energy 
efficiency, as well as services such as the Joint Credit Mechanism (JCM) consulting service. MUFG’s JCM 
consulting service supports the dissemination of low-carbon technologies to emerging markets as per the 
bilateral  credit  creation  scheme  proposed  by  Japan4.  A  specific  illustration  of  how  the  JCM  consulting 
service enables MUFG to act on the three commitments described above is the ‘Green Hospitals’ project 
developed in Vietnam. Through its JCM service, MUFG and its subsidiaries, financed the installation of 
1,000 energy efficient air conditioners at two hospitals in Vietnam. As a part of this service, MUFG is also 
developing a measurement and reporting methodology for Green House Gas (GHG) emissions reduced at 
these hospitals.  
 
While acknowledging the significance of MUFG’s sustainable products and services suite, Sustainalytics’ 
ESG research notes that MUFG does not have formal targets and deadlines  with respect to either this 
suite,  or  its  renewable  energy  financing  programs.  Sustainalytics’  ESG  research  also  notes  that  while 
MUFG does promote the consideration of ESG factors in its investment management and project lending 
activities, it gives limited consideration to ESG factors in its non-project based, general corporate lending 
activities. For example, while MUFG avoids lending to cluster munition manufacturers,5 it does not have 
a formal policy that systematically incorporates such ESG considerations in corporate lending activities. 
However, Sustainalytics evaluates the above as being in line with peer performance for banks. 
 
Specifically, with respect to its project lending activities, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that MUFG has a 
robust and credible process to consider ESG factors that is in accordance with the Equator Principles.  This 
credibility  of  project  lending  with  respect  to  renewable  energy  is  reflected  in  MUFG’s  ranking  as  the 

 
4 The JCM is a bilateral credit creation scheme between Japan and developing countries proposed by the Japanese government to the 
international community. JCM allows Japan, a country with an emission-reduction commitment under the Kyoto Protocol, to implement an 
emission-reduction project in developing countries. This is often done through offering subsidies for the transfer of low carbon technologies. 
These projects are then eligible to earn Certified Emission Reduction (CER) credits, each of which is equivalent to one tonne of carbon dioxide. 
These CER credits are then traded bilaterally between Japan and the host developing country.  
5 Sustainalytics ESG research 

 

 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

second largest project finance lead arranger for renewable energy in the Bloomberg New Energy Finance 
league table.6 
 
Given  the  demonstrated  realization  of  a  strong  Responsible  Finance  policy  and  the  abovementioned 
credibility of renewable energy project finance lending, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that MUFG is well 
positioned to issue this green bond. Sustainalytics also believes that this green bond issuance aligns well 
with the three commitments that strengthen MUFG’s Responsible Finance policy.   
 
Robust environmental and social risk management based on recognized third-party standard 
BTMU, the entity using the proceeds to lend to Eligible Green Projects, has a robust internal process to 
assess  and  manage  environmental  and  social  risks  stemming  from  its  project  finance  activities.  This 
internal process complies with the Equator Principles (EP), a risk management framework for large-scale 
projects. The credibility of the EP as a risk management tool derives from its ability to ensure: 
 

(i) 

 

(ii) 

(iii) 

A mandatory review of all projects with respect to their level of impact in a comprehensive 
range of environmental and social areas 
Principle 1 of the EP mandates a review and categorisation of all projects as having significant 
(Category A), limited (Category B), or minimal (Category C) environmental and social impact. 
Impact  is  assessed  on  the  eight  IFC  Performance  Standards  on  Environmental  and  Social 
Sustainability. These cover a wide range of issues to address environmental and social risk, 
including  management  of  environmental  and  social  impacts,  community  health,  resource 
efficiency and pollution prevention, and labour conditions.  

Strong mitigation process for projects with significant or limited adverse environmental and 
social impact  
The  EPs  (specifically  Principles  2-6)  also  require  all7 Category  A  and  B  projects  to  conduct 
environmental  and  social  impact  assessments,  develop  and  maintain  environmental 
management  systems,  demonstrate  effective  stakeholder  engagement,  and  establish  a 
grievance  mechanism8 to  address  concerns  around  the  project’s  environmental  and  social 
performance. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the abovementioned components combine 
to form a strong overall process for mitigating impacts throughout the life of project.  
 
Continuous independent assurance of a project’s environmental and social impact  
Principle  7  of  the  EP  require  that  Category  A  and  as  appropriate,  Category  B  projects  are 
subject to an independent review to assess the strength of the mitigation processes outlined 
above, and to assess compliance with the EP. Additionally, Principle 9 of the EP also requires 
the appointment of an independent environmental and social consultant to verify ongoing 
monitoring and reporting of project impacts.  

 
6   The Bloomberg New Energy Finance table is disclosed on the MUFG website: 
http://www.mufg.jp/english/csr/juten/sustainability/saiseikanou/  
7 Please note that for projects implemented in a set list of ‘Designated Countries,’ compliance with host country laws meets these mitigation 
requirements. This is because these countries are assessed as having robust environmental and social governance, legislation systems and 
institutional capacity designed to protect their people and the natural environment. 
8 For all Category A and, as appropriate, Category B Projects, MUFG’s client are required, as part of the ESMS, to establish a grievance 
mechanism designed to receive and facilitate resolution of concerns and grievances about the project’s environmental and social performance. 

 

 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Sustainalytics believes that the three points outlined above speak to the comprehensive nature of the EP. 
Sustainalytics has reviewed internal BTMU’s documents that demonstrate compliance with the EP, and is 
of the opinion that three core strengths of the EP are well reflected in BTMU’s internal risk assessment 
process.  As well,  BTMU  has  also  confirmed  that an  independent  third  party  auditor  (Pricewaterhouse 
Coopers) provides assurance on compliance with the EP.  
 
Alignment with Green Bond Principles (GBP) 2016 
Sustainalytics  has  determined  that MUFG’s  green  bond  aligns  with the  four  pillars  of  the  Green  Bond 
Principles 2016. Please see Appendix 2 for details.  
 
Conclusion 
MUFG’s  green  bond  framework  is  transparent  and  provides  clarity  regarding  use  of  proceeds and  the 
outcomes of the green bond investments. Renewable energy is included in the GBP as an eligible green 
project category, offering clear environmental benefits. Additionally, MUFG’s project selection process is 
based on external standards such as the Equator Principles. This ensures that projects funded through 
bond proceeds have minimal or limited adverse environmental or social impacts.  Sustainalytics is of the 
opinion that MUFG’s green bond aligns with the four pillars of the GBP, and is robust and credible.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

APPENDICES 
Appendix 1: The Ten Equator Principles 
 
The Equator Principles are listed below, and can be viewed at the following link: http://www.equator-
principles.com/ 
 

  Principle 1: Review and Categorisation 
  Principle 2: Environmental and Social Assessment 
  Principle 3: Applicable Environmental and Social Standards 
  Principle 4: Environmental and Social Management System and Equator Principles Action Plan 
  Principle 5: Stakeholder Engagement 
  Principle 6: Grievance Mechanism 
  Principle 7: Independent Review 
  Principle 8: Covenants 
  Principle 9: Independent Monitoring and Reporting 
  Principle 10: Reporting and Transparency  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

 
Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

15 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

ABOUT SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics is the largest independent provider of sustainability 
research, analysis, and services to investors. We serve over 250 
institutional investors which include some of the world's largest asset 
owners and asset managers. Through over 20 years of experience 
serving the responsible investment (RI) market, we have gained a 
reputation for providing high-quality ESG research solutions and 
excellent client service. 

Sustainalytics is headed by seasoned professionals in the field of 
business, finance, and sustainability, with a wealth of experience in the 
Responsible Investment area. After more than 20 years of local 
experience and expertise in the Responsible Investment (RI) market 
Sustainalytics has developed a comprehensive understanding of trends 
and best practices and a solid process to assist organisations in 
integrating ESG considerations into their policies and strategies. We 
have worked with some of the world’s financial institutions including 
pension plans, investment managers and banks providing customised 
support to help them achieve their RI objectives. Clients include ABN 
AMRO, APG, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank, ING Bank, Lombard 
Odier, Lloyds Bank, Triodos Bank, UBS and over 250 other financial 
institutions and organisations. 

Sustainalytics now has a staff of 250 employees globally, including over 
120 analysts, with operations in Amsterdam, Boston, Bucharest, 
Frankfurt, New York, Paris, London, Singapore, Sydney, Timisoara, and 
Toronto, and representation in Brussels and Washington DC. 

In 2015, Sustainalytics was named the Best 
SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
GlobalCapital. In December 2014, for the 
third year in a row, Sustainalytics was 
named best sustainable and responsible 
investment research firm in the 
Independent Research in Responsible 
Investment (IRRI) Survey, conducted by 
Thomson Reuters and SRI-CONNECT.  

 

 

16 

