 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 ICADE GREEN BOND 

FRAMEWORK 

 

 

SECOND OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

August 2017 

 
 

Catarina da Silva (Amsterdam) 

Senior Associate, Advisory Services 
catarina.dasilva@sustainalytics.com 
(+31) 20 205 0045 
 
 
 
 

Trisha  Taneja (Toronto) 

Associate, Advisory Services 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
trisha.taneja@sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 

(+1) 647 317 3695 
 
 
 
 

Floriana Cau (Paris) 

Associate, Institutional Relations 
floriana.cau@sustainalytics.com 
(+33) 18 488 0644 
 
 
 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

1. 

Introduction 

2.  Sustainalytics’ opinion 

Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the Icade’s Green Bond Framework 
Section 2: Sustainability Performance of the Issuer 
Section 3: Contextual Impact of Use of Proceeds 
Conclusion 

Appendices 

Appendix I: Overview and comparison of Real Estate Certification Schemes 
Appendix II: Documents reviewed 
Appendix III: Sustainalytics’ ESG Assessment of Icade 
Appendix IV: Green Bond External Review Form 
SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

2 

3 
3 
4 
6 
8 

9 
9 
11 
12 
13 
20 

1 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

1. INTRODUCTION 

 
Founded in 1954, Icade S.A. (Icade) is a real estate investor and developer entirely based in France. With 
a  commercial  and  healthcare  property  portfolio  of  EUR  9.7  billion  (as of  12/31/16)  and  as  a  property 
developer (2016 revenue of EUR 1.005 million), Icade is a significant player in the Greater Paris area and 
major French cities. Icade is listed on Euronext Paris as a French Listed Real Estate Investment Company 
(SIIC). 
 
Icade’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy has a strong focus on innovation in the real estate 
sector and on being a leader in environmental performance with the aim of fostering the emergence of 
tomorrow's greener, smarter and more responsible cities. In alignment with its CSR strategy, Icade has 
developed a Green Bond Framework1 in accordance with which it intends to issue a green bond. Proceeds 
of the bond will be used to finance or refinance: 
 

1. Investments in construction and/or  renovation of Green Buildings  that meet each of the eligibility 

criteria defined below: 
(i)  HQE certification (construction or renovation) ‘Very Good’ minimum level and/or BREEAM ‘Very 

Good’ minimum level certification,  

(ii) Distance to public transport not exceeding 400m (bus, train, tram, metro, river shuttle, private 

bus shuttle); and  

(iii) Existing or planned set up of a Green Lease Committee (“Comité Bail Vert”)  with its tenants, 
with a specific action plan regarding energy, carbon, waste and water, subject to acceptance by 
the  tenant  (for  properties  under  the  Environmental  Appendix  regulation,  i.e.  commercial 
properties >2,000 sq.m.)  

 

 

 

 

2. Investments in energy efficiency and energy transition projects 

   (i) Energy efficiency equipment projects that reach a minimum threshold of 20% in energy savings 
(in kWhPE/sq.m/year), and/or 20% CO2 emissions reduction (in kg CO2 eq/sq.m/year), compared 
to  the  existing  situation 
(theoretical  performance  calculation  based  on  technical 
documentation provided by equipment suppliers). 

   (ii) Renewable energy production projects that  fall under the following technology categories: solar 
(photovoltaic  power  system,  solar  thermal  energy  in  urban  areas),  wind  (in  urban  areas)  or 
geothermal energy solutions, in order to reach Icade’s goal of 20% of renewable energy in its 
property assets’ energy mix by 2020. 

    (iii) Eco-mobility projects that include electric vehicle (EV) charging stations and any infrastructure 
promoting the use of low-carbon transport solutions in urban areas, such as electric vehicles 
and bicycles.   

 
The targeted investments are part of Icade’s Commercial Property Investment Division.  
 

 
1 Available at http://www.icade.fr/en/finance/financing/bond-issue 

 

 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Icade has engaged Sustainalytics to provide a second opinion on its Green Bond Framework and on the 
framework’s  environmental  credentials.  As  part  of  this  engagement  process,  Sustainalytics  held 
conversations with various members of Icade’s CSR, Management and Treasury teams to understand the 
environmental  impact  of  their  activities,  the  planned  use  of  proceeds,  management  of  proceeds  and 
reporting  aspects  of  Icade’s  green  bond.  Following  this  engagement,  some  elements of  Icade’s  Green 
Bond Framework were clarified to ensure an alignment with the level of disclosure expected by ICMA’s 
Green Bond Principles 2017.2 Sustainalytics also reviewed relevant public and internal documents. 
 
This document contains Sustainalytics’ opinion on Icade’s Green Bond Framework and should be read in 
conjunction with that framework. 
 
 

2. SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION  

 
Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the Icade’s Green Bond Framework 
Overall, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Icade’s Green Bond Framework is credible and robust and 
aligns with four pillars of the Green Bond Principles 2017. In addition, Sustainalytics views the following 
elements of the Icade Green Bond Framework positively:  
 

•  A dedicated Green Bond Committee for project selection and evaluation.  

Icade’s  eligible  projects  and  assets  are  evaluated  and  selected  by  a  dedicated  Green  Bond 
Committee comprising the the Chief Financial Officer, the Head of Investor Relations, the Finance 
department,  the  Property  Investment  department,  the  Portfolio  Management,  the  Corporate 
Social Responsibility department and the Environmental Transition department. 
  
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that having a dedicated committee with ‘C-level’ involvement is a 
best practice among green bond issuances. 
 

•  Strong commitment to allocation and impact reporting.  

Icade has a strong commitment to allocation and impact reporting. Icade will provide a list of the 
projects  financed  and  an  external  auditor  will  verify  annually  both  the  allocated  proceeds  to 
eligible  green  projects  and  the  remaining  balance  of  unallocated  proceeds  (i.e.  allocation 
reporting), as well as validate the conformity of the assets with the eligibility criteria (commonly 
known as annual compliance review). 
  
Additionally, Sustainalytics considers that the impact reporting framework provides transparent 
impact  information  as  well  as  a  good  insight  into  the  financed  assets.  Sustainalytics  is  of  the 
opinion  that  this 
issuances,  and  aligned  with 
recommendations by the Green Bond Principles. 

is  a  best  practice  among  green  bond 

 

 
2 “The Green Bond Principles 2017”, dated 2 June 2017, issued by the International Capital Market Association (ICMA) 

 

 

3 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

•  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  Green  Lease  Committees  that  promote  engagement  with 

tenants, go beyond market practice and exemplify Icade’s leadership in this sector. 
 

Alignment with the Green Bond Principles 2017 
Sustainalytics has determined that Icade’s Green Bond aligns with the four pillars of ICMA’s Green Bond 
Principles, 2017. An analysis of the alignment of these four pillars is available in Appendix IV: Green Bond 
External Review Form. 
 
 
Section 2: Sustainability Performance of the Issuer 
 
Contribution of the proceeds of the green bond to Icade’s sustainability strategy  
Icade has a comprehensive CSR strategy that is centred around three pillars: 

1)  Developing solutions that include new habits and lifestyles in partnership with local authorities 

and communities; 

2)  Stepping up energy transition and saving resources; 
3)  Promoting the development of employee expertise, workplace well-being and diversity. 

 
In order to achieve its sustainability vision for the second pillar, Icade has defined important commitments 
related to sustainable buildings, energy efficiency, water and waste reduction, and promoting biodiversity 
and eco-mobility. Below, Sustainalytics describes how the Icade Green Bond contributes to furthering the 
advancement of several of these areas.  
 
Sustainable Buildings – Certifications and labels 
Icade  demonstrates  its  commitment  to  sustainable  building  through  its  membership  in  key  industry 
initiatives  such  as  France  Green  Building  Council  (GBC)  and  Association  pour  la  Haute  Qualité 
Environnementale  (HQE).  As  of  fiscal  year  2016,  60%  of  the  office  floor  area  of  Icade’s  Commercial 
Property  Investment  Division  were  HQE-  and/or  BREEAM-certified.  This  represents  a  substantial 
improvement  over  the  fiscal  year  of  2016  (this  percentage  was  41%  in  FY  2015)  showing  Icade’s 
commitment to green building certification. Furthermore, the company has set the following targets for 
green building certifications: 

• 

• 

Increase the surface areas of certified offices (HQE or BREEAM) in operation by +5% per year 
through to 2020; 
100% HQE-certified (High Environmental Quality) for new offices starting in 2018. 

 
According to the Icade’s 2016 CSR Report, the company is well on track to achieve these targets, and the 
proceed from Icade’s Green Bond will also positively contribute to this effort.   
 
Energy efficiency and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
Given Icade’s operational focus in France, energy efficiency and GHG emissions are also material to the 
company.  Icade  embraces  energy  efficiency  as  one  of  its  focus  areas.  To  this  effect,  the  company 

 

 

4 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

implements  measures  such  as  the  deployment  of  Energy  Performance  Contracts3  and  Green  Lease 
Committees,4  and  replacement  of  less  efficient  and  high-energy  heating  equipment.  Sustainalytics 
considers  that  Icade’s  Energy  Performance  Contracts  and  Green  Lease  Committees  that  promote 
engagement with tenants demonstrate the company’s leadership in this sector. Furthermore, Icade has 
established a minimum threshold of 20% energy efficiency improvement and/ or 20% carbon emissions 
reduction for eligible investments, providing an extra assurance of a positive impact associated with these 
projects.  
 
Icade has clarified to Sustainalytics that all the projects included under ‘renewable energy production’ 
refer to projects developed by Icade and integrated in its real estate projects.  
 
In  addition,  Icade  has  several  targets  that  show  its  commitment  to  improve  its  energy  use  and  GHG 
emissions overall performance: 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Reduce by 40% its CO2 emissions related to the operation of its commercial properties between 
2011 and 2020; 
Reduce by 12% those related to the construction of new properties, between 2015 and 2020; 
Reduce energy consumption by 30% of its commercial properties between 2011 and 2020;  
Reach 20% of renewable energy in the energy mix of the assets by 20205;  
Reach 90% of Green Lease Committees by the end of 2017. 

 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that projects funded by the proceeds of the green bond will contribute to 
achieving these targets and are well aligned with the company’s overall strategy with respect to reducing 
energy use and GHG emissions.   
 
Other environmental issues: Eco-mobility, Water and Biodiversity 
In addition to the above-mentioned material issues, Icade’s CSR strategy also targets other environmental 
areas  for  which  real  estate  has  an  important  environmental  impact.  In  this  light,  Icade  commits  to 
reducing its water consumption by 25% between 2011 and 2020, and to promote eco-mobility by: 

i)  Equipping 100% of the offices and parks with charging terminals for electric vehicles by 2018; 

and 

ii)  Investing in projects that are located within a 400-meter distance from public transport, starting 

in 2016.  

 
Sustainalytics considers that Icade’s Green Bond proceeds will also contribute to meeting these targets. 
 

 
3 Energy Performance Contracts give building operations managers quantitative targets for reducing energy consumption. 
4 According to Icade’s 2016 CSR Report, a building’s environmental performance largely depends on the behavior of its users, hence Icade pledges 
to  work  with  users  to  help  them  reduce  their  energy  consumption  and  expenses  in  the  form  of  Green  Lease  Committees.  Icade  has  set  up 
Committees enabling the property owner and the tenant(s) to exchange best practices and formulate an action plan, with quantifiable targets, 
for the consumption of energy, carbon, water and waste production. 
5 The 20% target will be reached by using a mix of own energy production and purchasing green certificates from energy providers. 
 

 

 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Sustainalytics would finally highlight Icade’s efforts to preserve biodiversity in its properties. Biodiversity 
assessments are systematically performed for new constructions and Icade has a target to reach a net 
positive impact on biodiversity for 25% of its of properties and new construction projects by 20206.  
 
Contribution of the green bond to Icade’s sustainability strategy 
Overall, Sustainalytics considers that Icade’s Green Bond strongly aligns with the company’s CSR strategy, 
namely with the second pillar focusing on stepping up energy transition and saving resources, by financing 
key activities that will allow Icade to improve its environmental performance and achieve defined goals 
in several environmental areas. 
 
Well positioned to mitigate common Environmental and Social risks associated with green buildings 
As real estate company operating only in France, Icade’s projects follow French regulation which includes 
obligations  to  mitigate  or  avoid  material  environmental  and  social  risks.  Legal  obligations  include  for 
instance: soil depollution, environmental and technological risks related to the project and protection of 
historic  or  natural  sites.  Furthermore,  HQE-  and  BREEAM-certified  projects  increase  the  scope  of  this 
assessment as they require: 

- An impact assessment on local populations (neighbourhood); 
- An impact assessment on noise and visual negative impacts; 
- Air, water and electromagnetic quality studies; 
- Waste management practices and use of local materials; 
- Biodiversity protection. 

 
 
Given  the  contribution  of  the  Icade  Green  Bond  to  the  company’s  comprehensive  CSR  strategy,  its 
demonstrated  performance  on  defined  targets,  and  Icade’s  processes  to  detect  and  avoid  common 
environmental and social risks, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the company is well positioned to issue 
a green bond. Furthermore, Icade rates as one of the leading companies in the Real Estate Industry in 
terms of ESG performance, as per Sustainalytics’ ESG research universe. 7 
 
 
Section 3: Contextual Impact of Use of Proceeds 
 
Importance of sustainable real estate in France 
With  an  increasing  rate  in  urban  development,  the  real  estate  sector  has  one  of  the  most  significant 
environmental footprints in terms of consumption of natural resources, and is a growing contributor to 

 
6 Similarly to a positive energy building which produces more energy than it uses, a construction  site with net positive biodiversity observes 
marked improvements in biodiversity over time as a result of initiatives taken in key areas affecting biodiversity such as the proportion of green 
space, the sustainable management of these spaces (the absence of pesticides, ecological mowing, etc.), artificial night-time lighting that is not 
harmful to local wildlife, sound water management and monitoring animal and plant life. In practice, expert ecologists establish a baseline for 
the monitoring indicators on these crucial topics and will be responsible for measuring them over time. Obtaining positive feedback from these 
indicators, and thus improving the site’s biodiversity compared with the starting point, is the goal. This progression is what determines the net 
positive impact. Icade has already established the baselines on several Commercial Property Investment Division sites and will measure its first 
biodiversity indicators in 2017. 
7 Information as per July 2017; For further details please refer to Appendix III.  
 

 

 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

CO2  emissions.  In  addition,  the  real  estate  sector  has  other  environmental  impacts,  including  waste 
production, pollution, use of water and consumption of other natural resources. 
 
In France, the real estate sector accounts for 43% of final energy consumption8 and 25% of greenhouse 
gas  emissions.  In  light  of  this,  and  in  alignment  with  France’s  Paris  Agreement9  pledge,  the  French 
government has engaged with the real estate sector to reach the government’s objectives in reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions, as put forward by the Grenelle Laws and the Sustainable Building Plan10. The 
Grenelle Law 2 states that “all buildings must have their energy consumption reduced by more than 38% 
before  2020”.  The  awareness  around  the  importance  of  green  buildings  and  quality  certification  of 
buildings by independent third parties contributes to this objective of the Grenelle Law 2. Additionally, 
the European Union has reviewed its ‘Energy Efficiency Directive’ and ‘Energy Performance of Buildings 
Directive’, the EU's main legislation covering the reduction of the energy consumption of buildings, and 
setting European targets for energy efficiency. Given that about 35% of the EU's buildings are over 50 
years  old11,  energy  efficiency  measures  represent  an  important  part  of  the  required  investments  to 
achieve those targets.  
  
Given  this  context,  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  Icade’s  Green  Bond  provides  an  important 
contribution to addressing priorities of France and the French Government to reduce its carbon emissions 
and improve energy efficiency, allowing the country to achieve European and international targets on 
climate change.  
 
Assessing the impact of green building certifications 
Icade is striving to increase the areas of offices and new buildings with green building certification, namely 
HQE certification and BREEAM . Overall Sustainalytics considers these certification schemes to be credible 
and ensure an integration of social and environmental considerations during all stages of a building’s life 
cycle. Appendix I shows a comparison between these certification schemes and LEED.  
 
However, Sustainalytics notes that the majority of BREEAM indicators are tradable and without minimum 
requirements,  meaning  that  buildings  can  receive  the  same  certification  based  on  the  fulfilment  of 
different indicators. Sustainalytics considers that this weakness is partly overcome in Icade’s framework 
as the company commits to transparent reporting, disclosing energy consumption and carbon footprint 
on a portfolio level, regardless of the certification used. Furthermore, to be eligible for the use of proceeds 
from Icade’s Green Bond, buildings need to achieve a minimum of BREEAM ‘very good’ or HQE ‘very good’, 
providing  assurance  to  investors  that  those  assets  are  well  aligned  with  green  building  expectations. 
Sustainalytics  recommends  Icade  to  keep  striving  to achieve  the  highest  levels of  certifications  within 
those schemes, as certifications can be obtained with different (lower) levels of performance. As of July 

 
8 Policy measure fact sheet – France, European Construction Sector Observatory, European Commission, September 2016 
9 Parties to the UN Climate Change Conference (COP21), which took place in Paris, France, in December 2015, agreed to a deal to keep global 
warming below 2°C (the “Paris Agreement”). To achieve this target, the World Bank estimates that a 36% reduction in total CO2 emissions in the 
real estate sector is required by 2030. 
10 http://www.planbatimentdurable.fr/ 
11 Energy Statistics, European Commission, https://ec.europa.eu/energy/en/topics/energy-efficiency/buildings, accessed in April 2017 
 

 

 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

2017, Icade has clarified that 100% of the assets identified to be eligible, are at least HQE ‘excellent’ or 
‘exceptional’, in alignment with best practices. 
 
Lastly,  Icade  has  clarified  to  Sustainalytics  that  the  certifications  obtained  will  be  focused  on  the 
construction phase of the assets, and that there is a minimum risk that the assets would lose the assigned 
certification during the term of the bond12, as it could potentially be the case of ‘in-use’ certification that 
needs  to  be  renewed  annually.  In  case  an  eligible  asset  would  lose  its  certification,  Icade  commits  to 
replacing it by another asset that complies with the eligibility criteria.  
 
 
Conclusion 
Icade,  one  of  the  leading  companies  in  the  Real  Estate  Industry  in  terms  of  ESG  performance,  as  per 
Sustainalytics’ ESG research universe, developed a Green Bond Framework for the future issuance of a 
Green Bond. The proceeds will be allocated towards financing or refinancing: 

(i) 

(ii) 

the construction and/or renovation of green buildings (i.e. buildings that received a minimum 
of HQE ‘very good’ and/or BREEAM ‘very good’ certification, are located within 400m of public 
transport and for which there is an existing or planned set up of a Green Lease Committee); 
and 
investments in energy efficiency and energy transition projects, including energy efficiency 
equipment projects, renewable energy production projects and eco-mobility projects. 

 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the use of third party green building certification schemes ensures the 
integration  of  environmental  and  social  considerations,  and  Icade  commits  to  certification  levels  that 
represent  a  good  performance  level.  Sustainalytics  recommends  Icade  to  keep  striving  to  achieve  the 
highest  levels  of  certifications  within  those  schemes.  In  addition,  Icade  will  ensure  high  level  of 
transparency  in  terms of the  environmental performance  of the financed assets, including key impact 
metrics such as energy consumption and emissions avoided.  
 
Overall,  Icade’s  Green  Bond  Framework  aligns  with  the  Green  Bond  Principles  2017,  displaying  best 
practices in process selection and evaluation, and allocation and impact reporting. Additionally, Icade’s 
Green  Bond  Framework  fully  aligns  with  the  company’s  CSR  strategy  (namely  with  the  second  pillar 
focusing on stepping up energy transition and saving resources) and will support Icade in achieving several 
environmental targets that are important both to the company and to the French real estate context.  
 
Based on the above, Sustainalytics is confident that Icade is well positioned to issue a Green Bond and 
Icade’s Green Bond Framework is transparent, credible, and in alignment with the four pillars of ICMA’s 
Green Bond Principles 2017.  
 

 

 
12 Construction certifications are related to the building materials and equipment used. Hence, unless there is a dramatic change of the structure 
of  the  building,  HQE  and  BREEAM  construction  certification  will  be  maintain  continuously  during  the  bond  for  every  asset.  
Losing a construction certification, would imply demolishing or renovating heavily a major part of the building. Since all the assets to be financed 
with  Icade’s  Green  Bond  are  new  buildings  or  equivalent  new  buildings  (recently  refurbished  and  certified)  it  is  very  unlikely  that  a  major 
refurbishment would affect the certification.  

 

 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

APPENDICES 
Appendix I: Overview and comparison of Real Estate Certification Schemes13 
 

 

HQE 

BREEAM 

LEED 

BREEAM (Building Research 
Establishment Environmental 
Assessment Method) was first 
published by the Building 
Research Establishment (BRE) in 
1990. 
Based in the UK.  
Used for new, refurbished and 
extension of existing buildings. 
 

Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design (LEED) is a 
US Certification System for 
residential and commercial 
buildings used worldwide. LEED 
was developed by the non-profit 
U.S. Green Building Council 
(USGBC) and covers the design, 
construction, maintenance and 
operation of buildings. 

The Haute Qualité 
Environnementale or HQE 
(High Quality Environmental 
standard) is a standard for 
green building in France, 
based on the principles of 
sustainable development first 
set out at the 1992 Earth 
Summit. The standard was 
launched in 2005 and is 
controlled by HQE and 
certificate is issued by 
Cerway/ Certivea/ Cerqual. 
Pass  
Good   
Very good  
Excellent  
Exceptional 
Global management system 
 

Background 

Certification 
levels 

Areas of 
Assessment: 
Environmental 
Project 
Management 

Pass  
Good  
Very Good 
Excellent 
Outstanding 
Management (Man) addresses 
various aspects: project 
management, deployment, 
minimal environmental 
disturbance worksite and 
stakeholder engagement. 

Certified  
Silver  
Gold  
Platinum 

Integrative process, which 
requires, from the beginning of 
the design process, the 
identification and creation of 
synergies between the various 
project stakeholders regarding 
the construction choices and the 
technical systems. 
Energy and atmosphere  
Sustainable Sites  
Location and Transportation 
Materials and resources  
Water efficiency  
Indoor environmental quality  
Innovation in Design  
Regional Priority 

Areas of 
Assessment: 
Environmental 
Performance 
of the Building 

•  Energy 
•  Environment (Site, 

Components, Worksite, 
Water, Waste, 
Maintenance)  

•  Comfort (Hydrothermal, 

Acoustic, Visual, Olfactory)   

•  Health (Spaces quality, Air 

Quality, Water Quality) 

Energy  
Land Use and Ecology  
Pollution 
Transport  
Materials  
Water 
Waste 
Health and Wellbeing  
Innovation 

 
13   Based on information provided in the analysed certification initiatives and a comparison study: 
- BREEAM: BREEAM International 2013 
- HQE: HQE 2013 Non-Residential, updated in October 2014 
- LEED: LEED Green Building Design + Construction V4 
International environmental certifications for the design and construction of non-residential buildings - The positioning of HQE certification 
relative to BREEAM and LEED, France GBC and Alto Ingenierie, June 2015 
 

 

 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Requirements 

Performance 
display 

Accreditation 

Qualitative 
considerations 

•  Principles of Equivalence 

Prerequisites (independent of 
level of certification) + Points-
based performance level: 
Performing and High 
Performing 
 
The Prerequisite level is 
obtained when all the 
minimum requirements for a 
target are met, while the 
Performing and High 
Performing levels are 
obtained based on a 
percentage of points given per 
target, allowing for flexibility.  
 
Based on the total number of 
stars obtained per area, an 
overall HQE level is then 
given. 
 
Environmental certificates are 
assigned at all stages of the 
building life cycle, and on-site 
audits are required.  
 

HQE Construction Certification 
Referent 
 HQE Operations Certification 
Advisor 
HQE certification has the most 
number of targets concerning 
individuals. The “Comfort” 
and “Health” related themes 
are the most developed in this 
scheme. 
The HQE scheme recognises 
European and international 
standards (in particular the 
ISO and ASHRAE standards). 

Prerequisites depending on the 
levels of certification + Credits 
with associated points  
 
This number of points is then 
weighted by item14 and gives a 
BREEAM level of certification, 
which is based on the overall 
score obtained (expressed as a 
percentage). Majority of 
BREEAM issues are flexible, 
meaning that the client can 
choose which to comply with to 
build their BREEAM 
performance score.  
 
BREAAM has two stages/ audit 
reports: a ‘BREEAM Design 
Stage’ and a ‘Post Construction 
Stage’, with different 
assessment criteria.  
 

Prerequisites (independent of 
level of certification) + Credits 
with associated points  
 
These points are then added 
together to obtain the LEED 
level of certification 
 
There are several different 
rating systems within LEED. Each 
rating system is designed to 
apply to a specific sector (e.g. 
New Construction, Major 
Renovation, Core and Shell 
Development, Schools-/Retail-
/Healthcare New Construction 
and Major Renovations, Existing 
Buildings: Operation and 
Maintenance).  
 

 

 

BREEAM  International  Assessor 
BREEAM  AP  BREEAM 
In  Use 
Assessor 

LEED AP BD+C  
LEED AP O+M 

Widely recognised 
internationally, and strong 
assurance of overall quality. 

Used in more than 70 countries: 
Good adaptation to the local 
normative context. 
Predominant environmental 
focus. 
BREEAM certification is less 
strict (less minimum thresholds) 
than HQE and LEED 
certifications. 
 

 
14 BREEAM weighting: Management 12%, Health and wellbeing 15%, Energy 19%, Transport 8%, Water 6%, Materials 12.5%, Waste 7.5%, Land 
Use and ecology 10%, Pollution 10% and Innovation 10%. One point scored in the Energy item is therefore worth twice as much in the overall 
score as one point scored in the Pollution item 

 

 

10 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

 
Appendix II: Documents reviewed 
 
Sustainalytics reviewed the following documents for the purposes of writing this report: 
 

Number  Document Name 
1 
2 
3 
4  

Icade’s website – www.icade.fr 
Icade 2016 Registration Document – includes 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Chapter 
CDP Climate Change Report 2016 - France and Benelux edition, CDP, October 2016 
Industry Agenda: Environmental Sustainability Principles for the Real Estate Industry, World Economic 
Forum, January 2016 
Policy  measures  fact  sheet  –  France,  European  Construction  Sector  Observatory,  European 
Commission, September 2016 
France’s Sustainable Building Plan -  http://www.planbatimentdurable.fr/ 
International environmental certifications for the design and construction of non-residential buildings 
- The positioning of HQE certification relative to BREEAM and LEED, France GBC and Alto Ingenierie, 
June 2015 
Energy Statistics, European Commission 
EU's 2030 policy framework - http://www.eceee.org/policy-areas/2030-policy-framework  
Sustainalytics’ ESG Assessment – Icade S.A., accessed in May 2017 

5 

6 
7 

8 
9 
10 

 
 
 

 

 

 

11 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Appendix III: Sustainalytics’ ESG Assessment of Icade  
 
ESG Summary 

 
Environment 

  

 

 

  

 

12 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

 
Disclaimer 
All  rights  reserved.  No  part  of  this  second  opinion  (the  “Opinion”)  may  be  reproduced,  transmitted  or 
published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not accept 
any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from the use 
of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied,  regarding  the  advisability  to  invest  in  or  include  companies  in  investable  universes  and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the  economic  performance  and  credit  worthiness  of  the  bond,  nor  to  have  focused  on  the  effective 
allocation of the bonds’ proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 

 

 

 

19 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics  is  an  independent  ESG  and  corporate  governance  research,  ratings  and  analysis  firm 
supporting  investors  around  the  world  with  the  development  and  implementation  of  responsible 
investment  strategies. With 13 offices globally, Sustainalytics partners with institutional investors who 
integrate  environmental,  social  and  governance  information  and  assessments  into  their  investment 
processes.  Today,  the  firm  has  more  than  300  staff  members,  including  170  analysts  with  varied 
multidisciplinary  expertise  of  more  than  40  sectors.  Through  the  IRRI  survey,  investors  selected 
Sustainalytics as the best independent responsible investment research firm for three consecutive years, 
2012 through 2014 and in 2015, Sustainalytics was named among the top three firms for both ESG and 
Corporate Governance research. The firm was also named the Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
Global Capital in 2015. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com  
 
Sustainalytics 
info@sustainalytics.com  
www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

20 

