 

 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

KAISER FOUNDATION 

HOSPITALS 

GREEN BONDS 

 

 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND  

SECOND OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

April 7, 2017 

Ankita Shukla (Toronto) 
Senior Advisor, Advisory Services 
ankita.shukla@sustainalytics.com  
(+1) 416 861 0403 

Charlotte Peyraud (New York)  
Senior Advisor, Institutional Relations 
charlotte.peyraud@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 646 518 0184 

 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

1. 

INTRODUCTION 

2.  OVERVIEW OF ISSUER 

3.  FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 

3.1  Use of Proceeds 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
3.3  Management of Proceeds 
3.4  Reporting 

4  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 

Conclusion 

APPENDIX 1 

APPENDIX 2 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

3 

3 

4 
4 
4 
5 
5 

6 
7 

8 

9 

16 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

1. INTRODUCTION 
 
Kaiser  Foundation  Hospitals,  a  California  nonprofit  public  benefit  corporation  (“Kaiser  Foundation 
Hospitals”) intends to participate in green bonds transactions and has engaged Sustainalytics to provide 
a  second  opinion  on  its  green  bonds  and  the  bond’s  environmental  credentials.  Kaiser  Foundation 
Hospitals, Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. and their subsidiaries (collectively, “Kaiser”) have developed 
a  Green  Bond  Framework  relating  to  Kaiser’s  green  bonds  and  the  use  of  proceeds  to  finance  and 
refinance  expenditures  related  to  promoting  environmentally  sustainable construction.  As  part of  this 
engagement,  Sustainalytics  held  conversations  with  members  of  Kaiser’s  management  team  to 
understand the sustainability impact of their business processes and planned use of proceeds for the bond 
issuance.  Sustainalytics’  opinion  intends  to  provide  an  assessment  of  the  Green  Bond  Framework’s 
alignment with the transparency and reporting requirements of the Green Bond Principles1 (“GBP”) as 
well as assess Kaiser’s overall sustainability performance and its alignment with the Framework. 
 
This  document  contains  two  sections:  Framework  Overview  –  summary  of  the  Kaiser’s  Green  Bond 
Framework; and Sustainalytics’ Opinion – an opinion of the Framework. 
  
2. OVERVIEW OF KAISER 
 
Headquartered  in  Oakland,  California,  Kaiser  currently  operates  in  eight  states  and  the  District  of 
Columbia,  with  a  concentration  of  its  member  base  and  health  care  facilities  in  California.    As  of 
February 28, 2017,  Kaiser  had  more  than  11.7  million  members,  38  hospitals,  and  approximately  660 
medical offices. 
 
In  2016,  Kaiser  announced  long-term  Environmental  Stewardship  goals  through  the  year  2025,  which 
include: 

-  Become “carbon net positive” through buying clean energy and offsetting more greenhouse gas 

(GHG) emissions than it emits;  

-  Buy all of its food from local or sustainably managed producers; 
-  Recycle, reuse or compost 100% of non-hazardous waste; 
-  Reduce its water use by 25% per square foot of building;  
- 

Increase  purchase  of  products  and  materials  meeting  environmental  standards  to  50%Meet 
international standards for environmental management at all its hospitals; 
Pursue new collaborations to reduce environmental risks in communities where it operates. 

- 

 
The stewardship goals are anchored in Kaiser’s community benefit efforts and are intended to advance 
Kaiser’s mission of improving the health of its members.  
 

 
1 The Green Bond Principles are voluntary process guidelines that recommend transparency and disclosure and promote integrity in the 

development of the Green Bond market. They provide issuers guidance on the key components involved in launching a credible Green Bond 
and aid investors by ensuring availability of information necessary to evaluate the environmental impact of their Green bond investments. 

3 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

To  further  advance  progress  towards  its  2025  Environmental  Stewardship  goals  and  support  its 
commitment to seek Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Gold or Platinum certification 
for  new  construction  of  hospitals,  large  medical  offices  and  other  major  projects,  Kaiser  Foundation 
Hospitals is planning to participate in green bonds transactions to finance and refinance projects that it 
identifies as promoting environmentally sustainable construction.  
 
3. FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 
 
The following section summarizes Kaiser’s Green Bond Framework, which is based on the four key pillars 
of the Green Bond Principles: the use of proceeds, process for project selection, management of 
proceeds, and reporting. 
 
3.1   Use of Proceeds 
 
An amount equal to the green bond proceeds, net of any associated costs of issuance and original issuance 
discount/premium, will be used to finance or reimburse, in whole or in part, capital expenditures and 
costs associated with the construction of eligible green projects.   
 
Kaiser’s Green Bond Eligibility Criteria 
Eligible  green  projects  are  defined  as:  Kaiser  medical  facilities  that  have  received,  or  are  expected  to 
receive, LEED2 Gold or Platinum certification. Eligible green projects include:  

(i) 
(ii) 

(iii) 

developed and completed medical facilities,  
existing medical facilities with scheduled opening dates following the issue date of the green 
bond, and  
future projects, which have the potential of earning LEED Gold or Platinum, with scheduled 
opening dates up to the maturity date of the green bond 

 

3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
 
Kaiser has or will identify eligible green projects based on the above mentioned eligibility criteria. 
Disbursements related to Eligible Green Projects will be agreed upon by Kaiser Finance, National 
Facilities Services and the Environmental Stewardship officer.   
 
Kaiser will select medical facilities based on its ability to achieve LEED Gold or Platinum certification 
which evaluates the sustainability of a building by assigning points for performance in the following key 
areas: 

•  Sustainable Sites 
•  Water Efficiency 
•  Energy and Atmosphere 

 
2 Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (“LEED”) is a voluntary, third-party building certification process developed by the U.S. Green 

Building Council (“USGBC”), a non-profit organization. 

4 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

•  Materials and Resources 
• 
• 
•  Regional Priority 

Indoor Environmental Quality 
Innovation in Design 

 
The following points are required to demonstrate performance in the areas outlined above, which are 
tracked in a LEED scorecard.  

• 
• 

LEED Gold certification: 60 and 79 points 
LEED Platinum certification: 80+ points 

 
Kaiser’s  National  Facilities  Services  team  tracks  the  progress  in  achieving  LEED  Gold  and  Platinum 
certification based upon each project’s LEED scorecard and provides the Kaiser Finance and Legal teams 
with updates. The Kaiser Finance team tracks the progress based on updates received from the National 
Facilities Services team. 
 

3.3        Management of Proceeds  

 
The green bonds will be issued by the California Health Facilities Financing Authority (tax-exempt) and 
by Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (Taxable). However, in all cases, the entity using the bond proceeds to 
implement the eligible projects will be Kaiser Foundation Hospitals. The value of Kaiser’s green bonds is 
expected to be lower than the value of the green assets being financed and refinanced, and thus the 
proceeds from the bond will only account for a part of the total cost of the LEED green buildings. 
 
The proceeds raised by the green bonds will be immediately, or shortly thereafter, used to finance and 
refinance costs associated with the eligible green projects. The proceeds will be tracked and accounted 
for within the Kaiser Finance team. Pending allocation of the green bond proceeds to eligible green 
projects, Kaiser will track and maintain an amount equal to the balance of unallocated green bond 
proceeds in cash, cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities, and/or US Treasury securities.   
 
3.4    Reporting  
 
Annually, until the proceeds are fully allocated from the green bonds, Kaiser Foundation Hospitals will 
provide disclosure regarding the amount of green bond proceeds allocated to eligible green projects, a 
brief description of each such eligible green project, and the LEED rating achieved for each such eligible 
green project. Disclosure will be made through the Electronic Municipal Market Access (EMMA) system 
of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, accessible at www.emma.msrb.org, as well as in the 
Credit Group’s3  Annual Report. This disclosure will continue until such time as the proceeds of the 
bonds are fully expended. Once all green bond proceeds are allocated and disclosure regarding such 
allocation is made, no further updates on the amount of green bond proceeds allocated to eligible green 
projects, any eligible green project, or the LEED rating achieved for any eligible green project will be 
provided.  
 
3 “Credit Group” consists of Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc., Kaiser Hospital Asset Management, Inc., and 

Kaiser Health Plan Asset Management, Inc. 

5 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

 
4  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
 
A strong environmental commitment and demonstrated performance 
Kaiser views environmental sustainability as an important element of a holistic approach to improve 
community health and as such the organization integrates related goals and activities in a structured 
manner. In 2016, Kaiser launched 2025 Environmental Stewardship goals that address various areas of 
its operations. To achieve these 2025 Environmental Stewardship goals, the company has implemented 
a wide range of initiatives. For instance, from between 2013 and 2015, Kaiser achieved a 15% reduction 
in water use intensity, which translated into savings of 240 million gallons a year, through rainwater 
harvesting, low flow sinks and toilets, grey water re-use, and drought-resistant landscaping4. Kaiser 
provides partial updates on its performance against its goals through its annual report, Community 
Benefit Snapshot. In participating in green bonds financings to fund projects that it identifies as 
promoting environmentally sustainable construction, Kaiser is advancing progress towards its 2025 
Environmental Stewardship goals.  
 
Furthermore, the organization reports to be collaborating with the U.S. Green Building Council5 to 
support LEED construction of its hospitals and medical office buildings. Kaiser has a strong track record6 
of achieving LEED Gold and Platinum certification for several of its healthcare facilities, as indicated in 
Appendix 1. 
 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Kaiser is well positioned to participate in the green bonds 
transactions given its: (i) strong environmental commitment and targets outlined in the 2025 
Environmental Stewardship goals, (ii) performance in reducing environmental impact in its operations, 
and (iii) strong track record for achieving LEED Gold and Platinum certification for over ten of its 
facilities. 
 
Environmental context of healthcare facilities and impact of LEED certification 
Overall, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the proceeds from the Bond will have clear positive 
environmental impacts and are in alignment with relevant industry standards.  
 
Buildings are a significant contributor of GHG and carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. For example, in the 
US, buildings account for 38% of all CO2 emissions, 73% of all national electricity consumption, and 
13.6% of all potable water consumption. Specifically, energy use in healthcare facilities is higher than 
nearly all other building types.7 Hospitals are the second greatest commercial energy user, behind 
commercial food services, emitting roughly 8% of the US’ GHG emissions. Hospitals also produce more 

 
4 https://share.kaiserpermanente.org/article/environmental-stewardship-conserving-water/ 
5 https://share.kaiserpermanente.org/article/environmental-stewardship-collaborations/ 
6 https://share.kaiserpermanente.org/article/kaiser-permanente-hospitals-among-countrys-greenest/ 
7 https://www3.epa.gov/region9/waste/p2/pdf/EnergyFinalOct12.pdf  
 

 
 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

than 4.67 million tons of waste per year and use 7% of the country's commercial water supply.8 
Improving energy efficiency of healthcare facilities is a robust way to mitigate the effects of climate 
change. LEED certification is an independent verification of a building’s energy and resource efficiency; 
and studies have shown that LEED-certified buildings have 34% lower CO2 emissions, consume 25% less 
energy and 11% less water, and have diverted more than 80 million tons of waste from landfills.9 
 
Energy efficient buildings are explicitly recognized by the Green Bond Principles as offering clear 
environmental benefits. Furthermore, the Climate Bonds Initiative observes LEED Gold or Platinum 
certification as an acceptable proxy to demonstrate an adequate level of performance under the Low 
Carbon Buildings sector criteria10.  
 
Alignment with Green Bond Principles 2016 
Sustainalytics has determined that Kaiser’s Green Bond Framework aligns to the four pillars of the Green 
Bond Principles 2016. For detailed information please refer to Appendix 2: Green Bond/Green Bond 
Programme External Review Form. 
 
 
Conclusion 
Kaiser views environmental protection as a natural extension of its mission to improve community health. 
Kaiser aims to reduce its environmental footprint through its LEED-certified buildings and organization-
wide energy and resource efficiency targets. By participating in green bonds transactions to finance and 
refinance  the  construction  of LEED  Gold  and Platinum certified  healthcare  facilities,  Kaiser  is  acting  in 
accordance with its environmental commitment and 2025 Environmental Stewardship goals to construct 
environmentally sustainable buildings. 
 
Given that the LEED process requires consistent documentation to track progress towards certification, 
Kaiser  is  committed  to  reporting  its  progress  towards  certification,  and  on  its  achievement  of  LEED 
certification. Kaiser's Green Bond Framework follows the guidance provided by the Green Bond Principles 
2016,  and  is  in  alignment  with  the  four  pillars, which  address  the  use of  proceeds,  process of  project 
evaluation and selection, management of proceeds, and reporting. Based on the above considerations, 
Sustainalytics is of the view that Kaiser’s green bonds are robust and credible. 
 

 

 
8 https://www.proudgreenbuilding.com/news/hospitals-can-save-millions-with-sustainability-programs/  
9 http://www.usgbc.org/articles/green-building-facts  
10 https://www.climatebonds.net/standard/buildings/commercial  

 
 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

APPENDIX 1 
 
Eligible green bond Projects - LEED Certified or Under Consideration to be LEED Certified 
  

Green Bonds Project 
List**  

Project Information 

25825 S Vermont Ave, Harbor City, CA 90710  February-15 

South Bay Replacement 
Hospital  
Orange County Radiation 
Therapy Specialty  
Mission Bay Medical Office   1600 Owens Street, San Francisco, CA 94158  March-16 
Chino Hills Satellite 
Regional Reference Lab  

3410 E. La Palma Ave, Anaheim, CA 92806 

13000 Peyton Drive, Chino Hills, CA 91709 

November-16 

June-15 

LEED Gold  

LEED Gold  

LEED Platinum  

LEED Gold  

San Diego Medical Center 

Viewridge MOB (Phase 1) 

Chino Grand MOB  

Baldwin Hills-Crenshaw 
MOB 

Antelope Valley Specialty 
MOB 
Murrieta MOB 

Market Street MOB 

Santa Clarita Specialty 
MOB 

 

9455 Clairemont Mesa Blvd., San Diego, CA 
92123 or otherwise located in the vicinity of 
the intersection of Clairemont Mesa Boulevard 
and Ruffin Road, San Diego, CA 92123 
5251 Viewridge Ct., San Diego, CA 94123    
In the vicinity of the intersection of Grand 
Avenue and Rosswell Avenue, Chino, CA 
91710 
Located in the vicinity of the intersection of 
Marlton Ave. and Santa Rosalia Drive in Los 
Angeles, CA 90008 

April-17 

LEED Platinum  

April-17 

LEED Gold 

June-17 

LEED Gold  

September-17  LEED Gold  

615 W. Avenue L, Lancaster, CA 93534 

September-17  LEED Gold  

28150 Keller Road, Murrieta, CA 92563 
Located in the vicinity of Marekt Street and 
Valentine Street in Ventura, California 93003 

October-17 

LEED Gold  

December-17 

LEED Gold 

26877 Tourney Road, Santa Clarita, CA 91355  January-18 

LEED Gold  

**Kaiser may substitute additional facilities that have or will achieve LEED Gold or Platinum certification 

 

 

 
 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 

15 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics  is  an  independent  ESG  and  corporate  governance  research,  ratings  and  analysis  firm 
supporting  investors  around  the  world  with  the  development  and  implementation  of  responsible 
investment  strategies. With 13 offices globally, Sustainalytics partners with institutional investors who 
integrate  environmental,  social  and  governance  information  and  assessments  into  their  investment 
processes.  Today,  the  firm  has  more  than  300  staff  members,  including  170  analysts  with  varied 
multidisciplinary  expertise  of  more  than  40  sectors.  Through  the  IRRI  survey,  investors  selected 
Sustainalytics as the best independent responsible investment research firm for three consecutive years, 
2012 through 2014 and in 2015, Sustainalytics was named among the top three firms for both ESG and 
Corporate Governance research. The firm was also named the Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
Global Capital in 2015. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 
Sustainalytics 
info@sustainalytics.com  
www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

16 

