	

	

KLABIN	GREEN	BOND	

	

FRAMEWORK	OVERVIEW	AND	SECOND	PARTY	

OPINION	BY	SUSTAINALYTICS	

August	30,	2017	

	

	

	
	
	

www.sustainalytics.com	
	

Ankita	Shukla	(Toronto)	
Senior	Associate,	Advisory	Services	
ankita.shukla@sustainalytics.com		
(+1)	416	861	0403	

Charlotte	Peyraud	(New	York)		
Senior	Associate,	Institutional	Relations	
charlotte.peyraud@sustainalytics.com	
(+1)	646	518	0184	

©	Sustainalytics	2017	

TABLE	OF	CONTENTS
1.	 Preface	

2.	 Overview	of	the	Issuer	

3.	 Framework	Overview	
3.1	 Use	of	Proceeds	
3.2	 Project	Evaluation	and	Selection	Process	
3.3	 Management	of	Proceeds	
3.4	 Reporting	

4.	 Sustainalytics’	Opinion	

Section	1:	Sustainability	Performance	of	the	Issuer	
Section	2:	Impact	of	Use	of	Proceeds	
Conclusion	

Appendix	1	

Sustainalytics	

	

	
	

	
	

3	

3	

4	
4	
11	
12	
12	

14	
14	
16	
18	

19	

25	

2	

	
Klabin	S.A.,	a	Brazilian	pulp,	paper	and	packaging	company	active	in	the	global	forest	products	and	FSC-
certified	 packaging	 market,	 intends	 to	 issue	 a	 Green	 Bond	 to	 finance	 projects	 and	 activities	 that	 will	
improve	 its	 environmental	 performance.	 Klabin	 engaged	 Sustainalytics	 to	 provide	 a	 second	 party	
opinion	on	its	Green	Bond	Framework.	Sustainalytics’	opinion	intends	to	provide	an	assessment	of	the	
Green	 Bond	 Framework’s	 alignment	 with	 the	 Green	 Bond	 Principles	 20171	 (“GBP”)	 as	 well	 as	 assess	
Klabin’s	overall	sustainability	performance	and	its	alignment	with	the	framework.		
	
As	 part	 of	 this	 engagement,	 Sustainalytics	 held	 conversations	 with	 Klabin’s	 treasury,	 legal	 and	
sustainability	 teams	 to	 understand	 the	 use	 of	 proceeds,	process	 for	 project	 evaluation	 and	 selection,	
management	 of	 proceeds	 and	 reporting	 aspects	 of	 Klabin’s	 Green	 Bond,	 as	 well	 as	 the	 company’s	
sustainability	strategy.	Sustainalytics	also	reviewed	relevant	public	and	internal	documents	from	Klabin.	
Following	this	engagement,	some	elements	of	the	Green	Bond	Framework	were	clarified	to	ensure	an	
alignment	 with	 the	 level	 of	 disclosure	 expected	 by	 the	 GBP.	 This	 document	 contains	 two	 sections:	
Framework	Overview	–	a	summary	of	Klabin’s	Green	Bond	framework;	and	Sustainalytics’	Opinion	–	an	
opinion	on	that	framework.	
	

2. OVERVIEW	OF	THE	ISSUER	

©	Sustainalytics	2017	

1. PREFACE	

	
Klabin	 is	 a	 pulp,	 paper	 and	 packaging	 company	 with	 more	 than	 229	 thousand	 hectares	 of	 forest	
plantations	in	Brazil	and	more	than	214	thousand	hectares	of	native	forests	that	have	been	set	aside	for	
environmental	conservation.	The	company	has	an	annual	production	capacity	of	3.5	million	tons,	with	
18	 industrial	 units,	 17	 in	 eight	 Brazilian	 states	 and	 1	 in	 Argentina.	 Klabin	 is	 Brazil’s	 largest	 paper	
producer	and	exporter,	the	leading	manufacturer	of	paper	and	board	for	packaging,	corrugated	board	
packaging	and	industrial	bags,	and	also	markets	timber	in	logs.	It	is	also	the	only	Brazilian	company	to	
simultaneously	supply	hardwood	pulp	(eucalyptus),	softwood	pulp	(pine)	and	fluff	pulp	to	the	market.	
	
Klabin’s	 long-term	 business	 strategies	 are	 based	 on	 operational	 and	 energy	 efficiency,	 responsible	
management	of	resources	and	commitments	to	the	environment	and	its	stakeholders.	Klabin	pioneered	
responsible	 forest	 management	 and	 was	 the	 first	 company	 in	 the	 pulp	 and	 paper	 industry	 in	 the	
Southern	Hemisphere	to	receive	FSC®	certification	(Forest	Stewardship	Council®)	for	its	forest	areas	in	
1998	and	the	first	in	the	world	to	have	non-timber	forest	products	certified.	Klabin’s	FSC®	certificate	
covers	the	chain	of	custody	of	industrial	sacks,	paperboard	and	kraft	paper	in	all	its	operational	units.		
		
In	 line	 with	 its	 commitment,	 Klabin	 is	 issuing	 Green	 Bonds	 to	 advance	 environmental	 sustainability	
across	the	company’s	global	business	divisions	and	operations.	

	
1	The	Green	Bond	Principles	are	voluntary	guidelines	that	recommend	transparency	and	disclosure	and	promote	integrity	in	the	
development	 of	 the	 Green	 Bond	 market.	 They	 provide	 issuers	 guidance	 on	 the	 key	 components	 involved	 in	 launching	 a	
credible	Green	Bond	and	aid	investors	by	ensuring	availability	of	information	necessary	to	evaluate	the	environmental	impact	
of	their	Green	bond	investments.	

	
	

3	

©	Sustainalytics	2017	
	

3. FRAMEWORK	OVERVIEW	

	
The	following	section	summarizes	Klabin’	Green	Bond	Framework,	which	follows	the	four	key	pillars	of	
the	 GBP	 including:	 the	 use	 of	 proceeds,	 project	 evaluation	 and	 selection	 process,	 management	 of	
proceeds,	and	reporting.	
	
	

3.1 

		Use	of	Proceeds	

	
An	amount	equal	 to	 the	 net	proceeds	 of	 the	 Green	 Bond	 will	 be	 allocated	 to	 projects	that	meet	the	
eligibility	criteria	specified	below,	including:		

(i) 
(ii) 

(iii) 

existing	projects	financed	during	the	two	years	preceding	the	issue	date	of	the	Green	Bond;		
projects	committed	to	prior	to	the	issue	date	of	the	Green	Bond	but	financed	following	the	
issue	date	of	the	Green	Bond;	and		
projects	committed	to	and	financed	after	the	issue	date	but	before	the	maturity	date	of	the	
Green	Bond.		

	
	
3.1.1  Eligibility	Criteria	
	
To	be	eligible	for	the	Green	Bond	proceeds,	the	projects	funded	must	meet	one	or	more	of	the	following	
business	activity	criteria:	
	

	
	

	

1.  Sustainable	Forest	Management	
2.  Restoration	of	Native	Forests	and		

Conservation	of	Biodiversity	

3.  Renewable	Energy	
4.  Clean	Transportation		
5.  Energy	Efficiency	

1.  SUSTAINABLE	FOREST	MANAGEMENT	

6.  Waste	Management	
7.  Sustainable	Water	Management	
8.  Eco-Efficient	and	Circular	Economy	

Adapted	Products,	Production	
Technologies	and	Processes	
9.  Climate	Change	Adaptation

	
Use	 of	 proceeds:	 Proceeds	 of	 the	 Green	 Bond	 will	 be	 allocated	 to	 capital	 and	 operating	 expenses	
required	for	activities	necessary	to	sustainably	manage	eucalyptus	and	pine	forest	plantations	that	are	
certified	by	FSC®.	This	includes:	
	

(i) 

New	planting	and	replanting	activities	in	owned	and	third-parties’	areas,	such	as:	
a.  Production	and	acquisition	of	eucalyptus	and	pine	seedlings;	
b.  Preparation	of	soil	for	the	plantation	of	seedlings,	including	subsoiling	and	harrowing	

activity;	

c.  Planting	of	seedlings;	
d.  Protection	and	maintenance	of	planted	seedlings	up	until	harvest.	

©	Sustainalytics	2017	

	
Context:	Klabin's	forestry	assets	are	the	basis	of	company’s	growth	strategy.	The	company's	products	
are	from	the	pine	and	eucalyptus	forests	and	it	is	with	them	that	the	company	has	been	advancing	in	
new	 markets,	 such	 as	 pulp.	 Klabin’s	 goals	 for	 its	 forestry	 operations	 set	 long-term	 commitments	 in	
regards	 to	 achieving	 maximum	 productivity	 while	 protecting	 biodiversity	 and	 natural	 resources	 and	
building	stronger	relationships	with	communities.		
				
All	of	Klabin’s	forest	stewardship	units	are	certified	by	FSC®,	totaling	the	scope	of	425,519.93	hectares.	
Klabin	 develops	 its	 forest	 management	 using	 the	 mosaic	 concept:	 plantations	 are	 interspersed	 with	
areas	of	native	forests	-	preserved	areas	of	the	Brazilian	Atlantic	Forest	-	to	create	ecological	corridors	
that	preserve	the	local	fauna	and	flora.	
	

FSC®	Forest	Certification	Program	for	Small	and	Medium-sized	Rural	Producers,	such	as:	
a.  Activities	and	services	required	to	assess	practices	and	implement	appropriate	

measures	in	small	and	medium-sized	rural	producers’	planted	areas	for	FSC®	
certification.		

(ii) 

	

Context:	To	ensure	that	good	management	practices	and	a	commitment	to	sustainable	development	
are	extended	through	the	timber	supply	chain,	since	2013	Klabin	has	maintained	the	Forest	Certification	
Program	for	Small	and	Medium-sized	Rural	Producers	in	the	region	of	Campos	Gerais,	Paraná,	aimed	at	
the	 producers	 that	 are	 part	 of	 the	 Forest	 Development	 Program	 and	 to	 independent	 producers.	
Certification	 is	 a	 statement	 that	 the	 timber	 producer	 operates	 with	 social	 and	 environmental	
responsibility	and	follows	the	worldwide	standards	of	forest	management.	As	of	December	2016,	more	
than	 25,000	 hectares	 had	 been	 certified	 and	 almost	 7,000	 hectares	 of	 degraded	 land	 have	 been	
environmentally	restored	in	partner-producer	areas.	
	
	

2.  RESTORATION	OF	NATIVE	FORESTS	AND	CONSERVATION	OF	BIODIVERSITY		

	
Use	 of	 Proceeds:	 Proceeds	 of	 the	 Green	 Bond	 will	 be	 allocated	 to	 capital	 and	 operating	 expenses	
required	 for	 activities	 that	 maintain	 existing	 strict	 conservation	 areas	 or	 that	 develop	 new	 strict	
conservation	areas.	This	includes:	
	

(i) 

Restoration	and	conservation	of	native	forest	cover	in	degraded	land	and	biodiversity,	such	
as:	
a.  Current	activities	and	services	required	to	restore	and	protect	Klabin's	native	forests	

(Permanent	Preservation	Areas,	Legal	Reserves	and	Natural	Heritage	Private	Reserves);	

b.  Acquisition	of	native	Brazilian	seedlings;	
c.  Labor	costs	associated	with	planting	native	Brazilian	seedlings,	pest	management,	

construction	of	fences,	as	required;	

d.  Labor	and	capital	costs	associated	with	creating	ecological	corridors	and	mosaics	in	non-

native	plantations	so	they	can	serve	as	wildlife	and	flora	habitat	conservation;	

e.  Costs	of	legalization	and	environmental	licensing	costs	related	to	developing	new	

conservation	areas	on	owned	and	leased	lands;	

	
	

5	

©	Sustainalytics	2017	

f.  Specialized	facilities	and	services	to	study	and	monitor	the	restored	area;	
g.  Wildlife	crossings,	underpasses	and	barrier	fences.		

	

Context:	Klabin	is	a	pioneer	in	the	adoption	of	mosaic	forest	management,	which	mixes	planted	forests	
and	preserved	native	forests.	Ecological	corridors	allow	the	transit	of	animals	in	large	areas,	contributing	
to	 the	 preservation	 of	 fauna	 and	 flora	 and	 the	 conservation	 of	 water	 resources.	 The	 company	 is	
developing	a	broad	program	of	research	and	conservation	of	fauna	and	flora,	promoting	the	monitoring	
of	biodiversity	in	its	forests	and	helping	to	ensure	the	survival	of	endangered	species	such	as	the	Pygmy	
brocket,	 howler	 monkey	 and	 puma.	 Of	 the	 total	 area	 managed	 by	 Klabin,	 approximately	 43%	 (215	
thousand	hectares)	corresponds	to	preservation	areas,	divided	between	Permanent	Preservation	Areas,	
Legal	Reserves	and	Natural	Heritage	Private	Reserves.	
	
Klabin	 owns	 two	 Natural	 Heritage	 Private	 Reserves	 in	 areas	 totaling	 almost	 9,000	 hectares	 dedicated	
exclusively	 to	 scientific	 research,	 the	 protection	 of	 local	 biodiversity	 and	 water	 resources,	 as	 well	 as	
providing	the	seeds	of	forest	species	for	the	restoration	of	degraded	areas.		
	

(ii) 

Klabin’s	Good	Woods	Program	(“Programa	Matas	Legais”),	which	includes:	
a.  Current	activities	and	services	required	for	training	the	third-party	timber	producers;	
b.  Specialized	services	in	studying	and	sustainably	planning	the	third-party	areas	

cultivation	and	management.	

	
Context:	Klabin	engages	with	its	wood	partner	suppliers	through	the	company’s	Good	Woods	Program,	
in	 order	 to	 improve	 the	 environmental	 condition	 of	 their	 property	 and	 guide	 them	 towards	 the	
compliance	of	the	Brazilian	Forest	Code	(which	focuses	on	environmental	protection	issues).	Through	
technical	 guidance	 and	 the	 donation	 of	 seedlings	 from	 native	 plants,	 the	 activities	 performed	 by	 the	
program	 foster	 the	 recovery	 of	 native	 forests	 (including	 riparian	 forests),	 responsible	 forestry	
management,	organic	agriculture,	ecotourism	and	conservation	of	natural	heritage.	
	

Conservation	of	fauna	through	Klabin's	Ecological	Park,	which	includes:	
a.  Specialized	facilities	and	services	in	studying	and	monitoring	the	behavior	of	species	and	

(iii) 

fauna;	

b.  Labor	costs	associated	with	maintaining	the	staff	exclusively	dedicated	to	the	care	and	

accommodation	of	animals	(including	a	biologist	and	a	veterinarian);	

c.  Costs	and	investments	related	to	animals’	treatments	and	accommodation;		

	
Context:	Klabin's	Ecological	Park	dedicates	its	activities	to	the	conservation	and	study	of	the	behavior	of	
endangered	 species	 of	 fauna,	 promoting	 their	 reproduction	 and	 their	 reintroduction	 into	 the	
environment	 according	 to	 the	 norms	 of	 environmental	 agencies.	 Additionally,	 it	 houses	 and	 treats	
animals	at	risk	that	are	unable	to	return	to	the	wild	(e.g.	animals	struck	by	cars	on	local	roads).	About	
200	specimens	of	50	species	live	in	the	park’s	nursery.	The	park	is	on	11,000	hectares	of	land,	of	which	
almost	7,000	are	native	forests.	The	whole	area	is	an	Area	of	High	Conservation	Value	(AHCV),	which	
means	that	it	has	a	significant	concentration	of	biodiversity	and	rare	ecosystems	that	are	endangered	or	
threatened	 with	 extinction.	 The	 preservation	 of	 these	 species	 results	 in	 maintaining	 both	 plant	 and	
animal	biodiversity.	

	
	

6	

©	Sustainalytics	2017	

	

3.  RENEWABLE	ENERGY	

	
Use	 of	 Proceeds:	 Proceeds	 of	 the	 Green	 Bond	 may	 be	 allocated	 to	 capital	 and	 operating	 expenses	
required	 for	 the	 development,	 construction,	 installation,	 operation,	 and	 upgrade	 of	 facilities	 that	
reduces	greenhouse	gas	emissions	(GHG)	through	the	substitution	of	fossil	fuels	with	renewable	sources	
and	increases	energy	efficiency.	This	includes:	
	
(i) 

Projects	and	equipment	that	promote	substitution	of	fossil	fuels	with	renewable	sources	in	
industrial	operations,	such	as:	

a.  Biomass	Recovery	Boilers	and	related	facilities;	
b.  Consolidation	of	electrical	systems	to	export	excess	energy	into	the	public	grid;	
c.  Optimization	projects	in	Klabin’s	plants.	

	

Context:	 The	 switch	 from	 fossil	 fuels	 to	 biomass	 as	 an	 energy	 source	 has	 been	 the	 focus	 of	 Klabin's	
environmental	 management	 for	 some	 years.	 Currently	 86%	 of	 the	 energy	 matrix	 is	 composed	 of	
renewable	energy	sources	(biomass,	black	liquor	and	hydraulic).	The	goal	for	2020	is	to	achieve	88%	of	
the	 energy	 matrix	 composed	 of	 renewables.	 With	 the	 increased	 use	 of	 renewable	 fuel	 in	 its	 energy	
matrix,	the	company	is	contributing	to	a	reduction	in	greenhouse	gas	(GHG)	emissions.	The	company	
presents	 its	 results	 through	 the	 Emissions	 Inventory	 prepared	 according	 to	 the	 methodology	 of	 the	
Brazilian	 GHG	 Protocol	 Program,	 a	 world-recognized	 standard,	 with	 2010	 as	 the	 base	 year	 for	
calculations.	
	
	

4.  CLEAN	TRANSPORTATION	

	
Use	 of	 Proceeds:	 Proceeds	 of	 the	 Green	 Bond	 may	 be	 allocated	 to	 capital	 and	 operating	 expenses	
required	 for	 the	 construction,	 maintenance	 and	 operation	 of	 clean	 transport	 infrastructure	 that	
transports	pulp	from	Klabin’s	facilities:	
	
(i) 

Activities	related	to	the	clean	transportation	infrastructure	dedicated	exclusively	for	the	
transportation	of	pulp,	such	as:	

a.  Acquisition	of	locomotives	and	train	wagons	in	order	to	replace	the	usage	of	trucks;	
b.  Railway	extensions	from	main	railway	lines	to	Klabin’s	facilities.	

	
Context:	Klabin	uses	rail	transportation	to	carry	all	of	its	exported	pulp	from	the	Puma	unit	to	the	Port	
of	Paranaguá.	This	equates	to	approximately	85,000	ton	per	month	transported	464	km	via	railroad.	The	
railroad	 uses	 a	 new	 extension	 (21	 km),	 built	 by	 Klabin,	 which	 connects	 the	 Puma	 unit	 to	 the	 already	
existing	"Paraná	Central"	line,	operated	by	Rumo.	In	addition	to	the	investment	in	the	new	extension,	
Klabin	also	acquired	the	wagons,	locomotives	and	built	a	pulp	warehouse	in	Paranaguá	(5	km	far	from	
the	Port).	
	
	
	

	
	

7	

©	Sustainalytics	2017	

	
	

5.  ENERGY	EFFICIENCY	

	

	

Use	 of	 Proceeds:	 Proceeds	 of	 the	 Green	 Bond	 may	 be	 allocated	 to	 capital	 and	 operating	 expenses	
required	 for	 the	 development,	 construction,	 installation,	 operation,	 and	 upgrade	 of	 facilities.	 This	
includes:	
	
(i) 

Projects	for	energy	efficiency	and	optimization	of	equipment	or	processes	to	reduce	energy	
waste,	such	as:	

a.  Acquisition	of	more	efficient	electric	engines,	valves	and	pumps;	
b.  Optimization	projects	in	Klabin’s	plants.	

	
Context:	The	Puma	Unit,	which	began	operations	in	March	2016,	was	conceived	with	the	goal	of	making	
Klabin	 a	 self-sufficient	 organization	 in	 power	 generation,	 with	 a	 capacity	 to	 generate	 270	 MW	 from	
renewable	sources.	Of	these,	approximately	120	MW	are	intended	for	industrial	operations	at	the	unit	
and	the	remaining	150	MW	are	available	for	sale	to	the	Brazilian	electrical	grid.		
	
	

6.  WASTE	MANAGEMENT	

	
Use	 of	 Proceeds:	 Proceeds	 of	 the	 Green	 Bond	 may	 be	 allocated	 to	 capital	 and	 operating	 expenses	
required	for	the	development,	construction,	installation,	operation,	and	upgrade	of	facilities	that:	
	
(i) 

Reduce	the	generation	of	waste,	such	as:	

a.  Equipment	to	reduce	chemical	usage	and	waste	generated	in	the	wood	cooking	process;	
b.  Equipment	to	recover	paper	and	fiber	wastes	(which	are	reused	as	biomass	or	

commercialized	for	packaging);	

c.  Equipment	to	minimize	fiber	waste;	
d.  Equipment	to	minimize	paper	waste	in	the	Industrial	Bags	and	Corrugated	Paper	plants.	

	
(ii) 

	
(iii) 

Reuse	waste	in	processes,	such	as:		

a.  Transformation	of	solid	waste	of	the	industrial	process	into	sub-products	to	use	as	soil	

correctives,	agrochemicals	and	fertilizers.	

Treat	wastewater,	such	as:		

a.  Wastewater	treatment	facilities	to	improve	the	quality	of	treated	wastewater.	

Context:	 Pollution	 prevention	 and	 control	 is	 a	 commitment	 established	 within	 Klabin’s	 Sustainability	
Policy.	 Waste	 management	 at	 Klabin	 was	 strengthened	 in	 2016	 with	 the	 development	 of	 the	 Solid	
Waste	Processing	Center	at	the	Puma	Unit	in	Ortigueira	(Paraná),	which	also	serves	the	Monte	Alegre	
Unit	in	Telêmaco	Borba.	The	center	has	the	capacity	to	recycle	94%	of	the	waste	from	the	Puma	Unit	
operations,	 reducing	 the	 operational	 costs	 of	 waste	 treatment,	 the	 number	 of	 landfills	 and	 its	
environmental	 impacts.	 Processed	 solid	 waste	 is	 reused	 as	 fertilizer	 and	 soil	 correctives.	 In	 addition,	

	
	

8	

©	Sustainalytics	2017	

recovered	primary	sludge	and	fiber	waste	can	be	reincorporated	into	the	papermaking	process.	Klabin	
also	partners	with	companies	in	search	of	new	solutions	for	the	reuse	of:	materials,	such	as	wood,	which	
can	be	used	as	fuel;	plastic,	which	can	be	sent	to	recycling	cooperatives;	and	sludge	from	the	Effluent	
Treatment	Stations	that	can	be	transformed	into	organic	fertilizer.		
	
Klabin	has	a	target	to	increase	recycling	and	reuse	of	waste	to	95%	by	2020	(currently	at	92%	in	2017).		
	
	

7.  SUSTAINABLE	WATER	MANAGEMENT		

	
Use	of	Proceeds:	Proceeds	of	the	Green	Bond	may	be	allocated	to	construction,	installation,	operations	
and	upgrade	of	water	facilities	that:		
	
(i) 

Reduce	water	consumption,	such	as:	

a.  Equipment	to	reduce	the	consumption	of	water	in	industrial	processes.	

Allow	for	water	reuse	in	industrial	processes,	such	as:	

a.  Equipment	that	would	facilitate	reuse	of	water	in	industrial	processes,	such	as	reusing	

water	that	was	previously	released	as	effluent.	

	
Context:		Klabin	strives	to	conserve	water	resources.	The	company	keeps	flow	measurement	systems	in	
mills,	 specific	 to	 each	 production	 process,	 and	 monitors	 the	 use,	 quality	 and	 stress	 of	 this	 resource	
through	 its	 forest	 management	 activities.	 Currently,	 36%	 of	 the	 total	 amount	 of	 water	 drawn	 from	
natural	water	sources	is	recycled	or	reused.	The	company	has	been	implementing	measures	to	improve	
water	 efficiency	 in	 its	 operations,	 and	 has	 a	 reduction	 target	 of	 5%	 set	 to	 be	 achieved	 by	 2020.	
Currently,	80%	of	water	consumed	is	returned	to	nearby	rivers	at	the	end	of	the	production	cycle	at	
production	facilities.	
	
	

8.  	ECO-EFFICIENT	AND/OR	CIRCULAR	ECONOMY	ADAPTED	PRODUCTS,	PRODUCTION	TECHNOLOGIES	AND	

PROCESSES	

	
Use	of	Proceeds:	Proceeds	of	the	Green	Bond	may	be	allocated	to	expenditures	that:	
	

	

	

	

(i) 

Support	Klabin’s	Industrial	and	Forestry	Research	Centers,	focused	on:	
a.  Capturing	gains	in	productivity	and	product	quality;	
b.  Developing	solutions	for	more	efficiently	consuming	inputs;	
c.  Reducing	and	mitigating	environmental	impacts;	
d.  Development	of	hybrids	without	genetic	manipulation	to	improve	the	productivity	of	

	
(ii) 

(ii) 

	
	

eucalyptus	and	pine	plantations.	

	
Facilitate	the	use	of:		
a.  FSC	certified	materials	packaging;	

9	

©	Sustainalytics	2017	

b.  Recycled	materials	in	packaging;	
c.  Reduced	materials	in	packaging;	
d.  Prolong	the	life	of	packaging	materials.	

 

plants;	

(iii) 

Enhance	the	recovery	and	recycling	of	packaging	materials	at	the	end	of	their	life	cycles	
a.  Projects	for	efficiency	and	capacity	improvements	of	the	Recycled	Paper	production	

b.  Activities	related	to	assuring	the	environmental	requirements	of	the	waste	paper	

wholesalers	(Klabin’s	waste	paper	suppliers).	

 
Context:	 Klabin’s	 newly-opened	 Technology	 Center	 in	 Telêmaco	 Borba	 (Paraná)	 brings	 together	
professionals,	laboratories	and	state-of-the-art	equipment	to	ensure	that	the	company	works	in	at	the	
forefront	of	this	area,	responding	to	current	needs	and	supporting	medium	and	long-term	projects.		
	
R&D	efforts	also	focus	on	productivity	increase	of	plantations	and	the	improvement	of	wood	(such	as	
density	and	fiber	content),	the	development	of	new	properties	that	reduce	paper	total	weight,	research	
on	new	technologies	linked	to	forests	(hemicelluloses,	lignin	or	extractives)	and	environmental	issues	
related	to	climate	change	such	as	the	reduction	on	the	use	of	energy,	water,	steam	and	chemicals.	
	
	

9.  CLIMATE	CHANGE	ADAPTATION	

	
Use	 of	 Proceeds:	 Proceeds	 of	 the	 Green	 Bond	 may	 be	 allocated	 to	 capital	 and	 operating	 expenses	
required	for	mitigating	the	consequences	of	climate	change	through	adaptive	measures.	This	includes:	
	

Activities	 related	 to	 assessing	 Klabin’s	 vulnerabilities	 and	 opportunities	 due	 to	 climate	
change	 and	 the	 means	 of	 improving	 the	 resilience	 of	 forestry,	 industrial	 and	 logistics	
operations,	such	as:	
a.  Alternative	green	methodologies	to	fight	forest	pest,	such	as	aerial	spraying	of	a	specific	

type	of	fungus	targeting	biological	control	of	pests2;				

b.  Preventive	operations	to	reduce	risk	of	forest	fires	–	innovations	in	planting	methods,	

other	risk	reduction	strategies.	

(i) 

	

	

	
2	Temperature	increase	and	reduced	frosts	may	lead	to	an	acceleration	of	the	growth	rate	of	forest	pests	due	to	thermal	stress	
on	plantations.	Klabin	performs	risk	analysis	for	both	chemical	and	biological	inputs	application	methodologies,	with	special	
care	to	aerial	spraying.	Rural	or	urban	communities,	water	courses	and	biodiversity	hotspots	are	mapped	by	the	company	and	
buffer	 zones	 of	 200	 meters	 are	 established	 (compared	 to	 the	 100	 meters	 legal	 minimum	 safe	 zone).	 All	 aerial	 spraying	
operation	is	registered	by	georeferencing	and	the	reports	are	audited	by	Brazil’s	Phytosanitary	Inspection	Agency.	Furthermore,	
specificity	testing	requirements	on	each	biological	agent	and	their	application	methodologies	are	regulated	by	the	Government.	
Klabin	strictly	follows	the	Brazilian	legislation	and	the	FSC	recommendations	/	prohibitions	in	regards	to	chemical	and	biological	
inputs.																
	

	
	

10	

©	Sustainalytics	2017	

Context:	 Klabin	 recently	 concluded	 a	 detailed	 study	 on	 climate-related	 risks	 and	 opportunities,	
conducted	 by	 a	 dedicated	 committee	 with	 inputs	 by	 external	 specialists.	 The	 analysis	 was	 based	 on	
internal	mapping	of	the	impacts	to	the	company’s	operations	which	are	likely	occurring	due	to	climatic	
events	 and	 the	 most	 probable	 risks	 and	 future	 opportunities.	 Science-derived	 inputs	 from	 the	
Conference	of	Parties	(COP)	and	the	Intergovernmental	Panel	on	Climate	Change	(IPCC)	also	aided	in	the	
assessment.	In	the	coming	months,	the	climate-related	impacts	matrix	will	be	assessed	by	the	Board	and	
an	Adaptation	Plan	based	on	the	prioritized	risks	and	opportunities	will	be	deployed.	
	
	

3.2  Project	Evaluation	and	Selection	Process	

	
3.2.1  Process	for	Evaluation	and	Selection	of	the	Eligible	Project	
All	 projects	 developed	 by	 the	 company	 are	 approved	 by	 the	 Board	 of	 Directors	 for	 budget	 approval,	
supported	 by	the	project’s	 financial	 viability	 and	 alignment	 to	 Klabin’s	strategy.	Additionally,	projects	
that	 are	 funded	 through	 the	 Green	 Bond	 proceeds	 will	 be	 evaluated	 by	 the	 company’s	 Sustainability	
Governance	 Bodies	 (Sustainability	 Committee	 and	 Commission,	 Climate	 Committee	 and	 Sustainability	
Area),	 as	 applicable,	 for	 their	 potential	 to	 create	 impact	 and	 their	 alignment	 with	 use	 of	 proceeds	
criteria.	
	
In	regards	to	the	projects	selected	for	allocation	of	amounts	equal	to	the	Green	Bond	Net	Proceeds,	
Klabin’s	Green	Bond	Sustainability	Team	will:	

(i) 
(ii) 

(iii) 

Nominate	projects	which	comply	with	the	eligibility	criteria	as	described	in	the	framework;	
Nominate	projects	which	meet	Klabin’s	environmental	and	social	risk	mitigation	process,	as	
described	below,	and;	
Recommend	an	allocation	of	proceeds	to	eligible	projects.	

	
These	 nominated	 projects	 will	 then	 be	 presented	 to	 Klabin’s	 Finance	 and	 Legal	 departments	 for	
approval.		These	recommendations	will	be	made	on	an	annual	basis	and	will	include	past,	current	and	
future	projects,	as	described	in	Section	3.1.1.	
	
3.2.2  Process	to	Mitigate	Environmental	and	Social	Risks	
The	 management	 of	 environmental	 and	 social	 material	 risks	 is	 managed	 by	 Klabin’s	 sustainability	
governance	 structure	 which	 is	 composed	 of	 a	 Sustainability	 Committee	 at	 the	 level	 of	 the	 Executive	
Board	and	the	Board	of	Directors,	a	Sustainability	Commission,	a	Climate	Committee	and	a	Sustainability	
Management	Department.	
	
Klabin	 identifies,	 monitors	 and	 mitigates	 such	 risks	 through	 its	 Sustainability	 Policy	 and	 the	 FSC,	 ISO	
14001	 and	 OHSAS	 18001	 certifications	 requirements,	 which	 in	 turn	 are	 supported	 by	 company’s	
Stakeholders	Engagement	Policy	and	the	Fundamental	Rights	in	Labor	Relations	Policy.		
	
Stakeholder	conflicts,	real	or	emerging,	are	tracked	systematically	through	multiple	platforms	such	as	
the	Territory	Materiality	Matrix.	The	materiality	matrix	is	designed	by	stakeholders	and	defines	material	
risks,	impacts	and	opportunities	for	interventions.	The	materiality	matrix	is	a	basic	component	for	the	
establishment	of	goals	within	company's	sustainability	strategy.		

	
	

11	

©	Sustainalytics	2017	

		
Klabin	has	been	strengthening	a	multi-disciplinary	company-wide	risk	management	processes	through	
its	Risk	Management	department	which	will	oversee	mapping,	prioritizing,	mitigating	and	reporting	risks	
the	company	faces,	including	environmental	and	social	risks.	
	
Additionally,	 the	 company	 maintains	 -	 for	 both	 forestry	 and	 industrial	 operations	 -	 teams	 exclusively	
mobilized	 to	 visit	 stakeholders	 including	 timber	 producers	 and	 community	 members,	 in	 order	 to	
monitor	environmental,	labor	and	human	rights	issues	and	strengthen	community	relationships.					
	
	

3.3 							Management	of	Proceeds		

	
The	proceeds	from	the	Green	Bond	will	be	managed	by	Klabin’s	Finance	Department	and	allocated	to	
approved	 Eligible	 Green	 Projects	 following	 specific	 recommendations	 by	 Klabin’s	 Green	 Bond	
Sustainability	 Team	 on	 project	 selection.	 The	 Finance	 Department	 has	 established	 an	 internal	
management	system	that	will	track	the	allocation	of	proceeds	to	such	projects.	
	
Pending	allocation,	the	Net	Proceeds	may	be	invested	in	cash	or	cash	equivalents,	in	accordance	with	
Klabin’s	cash	management	policies.	
	
	

3.4 

			Reporting		

	
3.4.1  Allocation	Reporting	
Starting	 on	 or	 prior	 to	 the	 first	 anniversary	 of	 the	 settlement	 date	 of	 the	 Note	 and	 thereafter,	
throughout	 the	 life	 of	 the	 Notes,	 Klabin	 will	 make	 and	 keep	 readily	 available	 information	 on	 the	
allocation	 of	 amounts	 equal	 the	 Net	 Proceeds,	 to	 be	 updated	 annually	 until	 full	 allocation,	 and	 as	
necessary	 thereafter	 in	 the	 event	 of	 material	 developments.	 Such	 information	 will	 be	 made	 publicly	
available	on	Klabin’s	Investor	Relation	website	(http://ri.klabin.com.br.	
		
This	information	will	include	additional	descriptions	of	projects	funded	with	the	net	proceeds,	amounts	
funded,	date	of	funding,	and	any	applicable	exchange	rates.	These	reports	will	be	accompanied	with	an	
assertion	 by	 management	 that	 the	 net	 proceeds	 of	 this	 offering	 were	 allocated	 to	 qualifying	 eligible	
projects	and	a	report	by	an	external	auditor	in	respect	of	its	examination	of	management’s	assertion	
conducted	 in	 accordance	 with	 attestation	 standards	 established	 by	 the	 International	 Standard	 on	
Assurance	Engagements	(ISAE)	3000.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

	
	

12	

©	Sustainalytics	2017	

Impact	Reporting	

	
	
	
3.4.2 
Where	 feasible,	 in	 addition	 to	 the	 above	 allocation	 reporting,	 Klabin	 will	 report	 publicly	 -	 within	 its	
sustainability	annual	report	(rs.klabin.com.br)	-	on	the	expected	environmental	impact	of	the	projects	to	
which	an	amount	equal	to	the	Net	Proceeds	have	been	allocated.	Likewise,	Klabin	will	report	on	the	
following	key	performance	indicators	(KPI)	on	a	project	portfolio	basis	for	the	Green	Bond	projects.		
	
Use	of	Proceeds	Category	
1.	Sustainable	Forest	Management	

Key	Performance	Indicators	
Certified	forest	area:	Hectares	of	Klabin’s	land	that	has	
been	planted	or	replanted	certified	by	FSC®1	
Certified	third-party	forest	area:	Hectares	of	wood	
suppliers’	land	that	has	been	certified	by	FSC®	
Greenhouse	gas	sequestration	(tCO2eq/adt)	
Hectares	of	Klabin’s	land	that	has	been	restored	
Hectares	of	owned	land	area	with	conserved	native	
vegetation		
Greenhouse	gas	sequestration	(tCO2eq/adt)	
Total	electricity	generated	from	waste	biomass	at	
Klabin’s	facilities	(MWh	or	MWh/adt)	
Greenhouse	gases	emission	reduction	(tCO2eq/adt)	
Total	amount	of	waste	biomass	reused	for	electricity	
generation	
%	of	renewable	sources	in	the	energy	matrix	
CO2	emissions	avoided	(tCO2eq/ton	transported)	
%	of	self-sufficiency	in	power	generation	
Reduced	and	reused	waste	(t	or	kg/adt)	
Water	consumption	(m3	or	m3/adt)	
Water	reused	(m3	or	m3/adt)	
Forest	Productivity	(m³/ha/year)	
Forest	MAI	-	Mean	Annual	Increment	(m³/ha/year)	
Recycling	capacity	
Delivery	of	adaptation	actions	
Effectiveness	of	adaptation	actions,	where	feasible	

13	

2.	Restoration	of	Native	Forests	and	
Conservation	of	Biodiversity		

3.	Generation	of	Energy	from	Renewable	
Sources	

4.	Clean	Transportation	
5.	Energy	Efficiency		
6.	Waste	Management	
7.	Sustainable	Water	Management		

8.	Eco-Efficient	and	Circular	Economy	
Adapted	Products,	Production	
Technologies	and	Processes	
9.	Climate	Change	Adaptation	

	

	
1	FSC®	License	Code	FSC-C022516	
	

	

	
	

©	Sustainalytics	2017	

4. SUSTAINALYTICS’	OPINION	
	
Section	1:	Sustainability	Performance	of	the	Issuer	

	
Contribution	of	the	Green	Bond	to	Klabin’s	Environmental	Strategy	
Sustainalytics	is	of	the	opinion	that	Klabin	has	a	strong	overall	environmental	strategy.	The	strength	of	
Klabin’s	 strategy	 is	 derived	 from	 (i)	 its	 commitment	 to	 the	 environment	 which	 is	 expressed	 in	 its	
Sustainability	 Vision	 as	 well	 as	 its	 Sustainability	 Policy;	 (ii)	 internal	 accountability	 –	 Klabin	 has	 a	
Sustainability	Committee	which	is	responsible	for	ensuring	that	sustainability	is	an	integral	part	of	the	
corporate	 strategy	 and	 all	 of	 the	 managerial	 processes;	 (iii)	 identification	 of	 material	 issues	 defined	
within	 its	 materiality	 matrix3;	 (iv)	 establishment	 of	 medium-term	 environmental	 targets;	 and	 (v)	
disclosure	on	progress	towards	achieving	environmental	targets.	
	
Klabin	updated	its	Sustainability	Policy	in	2016	and	expanded	its	areas	priority.	Amongst	its	priorities,	
Klabin	 commits	 to:	 “Avoid	 and	 prevent	 pollution	 by	 reducing	 environmental	 impacts	 related	 to	
wastewater,	solid	wastes	and	atmospheric	emissions”;	“Observe	the	United	Nations	(UN)	Sustainable	
Development	 Goals	 (SDG)	 and	 to	 direct	 its	 actions	 and	 investments	 in	 support	 its	 objectives”;	 and	
“Ensure	 that	 the	 company’s	 operations	 are	 constantly	 seeking	 to	 reduce	 greenhouse	 gas	 emissions	
(GHG)”.4	 Sustainalytics	 is	 of	 the	 opinion	 that	 proceeds	 from	 the	 Green	 Bond	 are	 in	 line	 with	 Klabin’s	
commitments.	
	
Additionally,	 each	 eligible	 use	 of	 proceed	 described	 in	 the	 Klabin	 Green	 Bond	 Framework	 outlines	
specific	 objectives	 and	 actions.	 The	 Klabin	 Green	 Bond	 contributes	 to	 specific	 environmental	 targets	
established	 as	 part	 of	 the	 organization’s	 medium-term	 strategy,	 which	 commenced	 in	 2013	 with	
expected	 targets	 between	 2016	 to	 2018.	 Of	 the	 targets,	 the	 Green	 Bond	 directly	 contributes	 to	 the	
following:	

•  Reduce	greenhouse	gas	emissions	to	185	CO2e/t	(from	Scope	1	and	Scope	2	activities);	
•  Reduce	water	consumption	to	38	m3	t/paper;	
• 

Increase	participation	of	renewable	sources	in	the	energy	matrix	to	88%.5	

	
Klabin	 publically	 reports	 on	 its	 progress	 in	 achieving	 these	 environmental	 targets.	 Between	 2004	 to	
2012,	the	company	reduced	CO2	emissions	by	61%	from	492	kg	of	CO2e/t	of	paper	to	192	kg	of	CO2e/t	of	
paper.6	 Sustainalytics	 is	 of	 the	 opinion	 that	 transparent	 disclosure	 on	 targets	 and	 performance	 is	
indicative	of	the	priority	the	company	assigns	to	achieving	results.		
	
	

	

	
3	http://rs.klabin.com.br/About-the-report#matriz-de-materialidade		
4	http://rs.klabin.com.br/Commitment-to-sustainability		
5	http://rs2012.klabin.com.br/en/strategy/objectives-and-targets-gri-12/	
6	https://www.klabin.com.br/en/sustainability/environmental-responsibility/climate-change/	

	
	

14	

©	Sustainalytics	2017	

Strong	Existing	Sustainability	Practices	
Sustainalytics	 is	 of	 the	 opinion	 that	 Klabin	 has	 a	 track-record	 of	 successfully	 integrating	 sustainable	
practices	within	its	operations,	as	well	as	extending	such	practices	down	its	supply	chain.	Such	practices	
enable	the	company	to	mitigate	common	social	and	environmental	risks	associated	with	its	operations.	
	
Klabin	 maintains	 a	 strong	 Environmental	 Management	 System	 (EMS),	 which	 has	 been	 externally	
certified	to	ISO	14001	standards,	for	13	out	of	its	18	(i.e.	75%)	production	sites	as	of	2016.	Furthermore,	
Klabin’s	maintains	certification	for	all	of	its	forest	areas	from	the	Forest	Stewardship	Council	(FSC).	The	
Forest	 Stewardship	 Council	 (FSC)	 is	 considered	 to	 be	 the	 best	 certification	 system	 to	 ensure	
environmentally	responsible,	socially	beneficial	and	economically	viable	management	of	forests	in	the	
industry.7	Sustainalytics	is	of	the	opinion	that	the	requirements	under	the	FSC	certification	means	that	
eligible	projects	will	need	to	follow	more	rigorous	environmental	norms	which	further	strengthens	the	
Green	Bond	Framework.		
	
In	addition	to	promoting	responsible	management	of	its	own	forest,	Klabin	uses	FSC	certified	wood	in	all	
of	 its	 production	 processes,	 which	 is	 a	 result	 of	 the	 Forestry	 Incentives	 Program.	 Klabin	 purchases	
between	15%	and	20%	of	its	total	timber	requirements	from	local	small	and	medium-sized	farmers.	The	
Forestry	Incentives	Program	has	led	to	over	25,000	hectares	of	partner-producer	areas	becoming	FSC	
certified	 as	 of	 2016.	 Studies	 have	 shown	 that	 forests	 which	 are	 FSC	 certified	 mitigate	 social	 risks	 by	
providing	 more	 benefits	 to	 communities	 than	 uncertified	 forests	 by	 establishing	 more	 effective	 and	
better	 organized	 institutions	 for	 communication	 with	 communities	 and	 equitable	 financial	 support	 to	
development	projects.	 8	As	such,	Sustainalytics	is	of	the	opinion	that	the	Forestry	Incentives	Program	
contributes	to	Klabin’s	commitments	to	use	certified	wood	in	its	production	and	also	leads	to	the	socio-
economic	development	of	nearby	communities.	
	
Klabin	has	dedicated	more	than	40%	of	its	forest	to	the	conservation	of	native	forest	and	maintenance	
of	 biodiversity,	 which	 is	 more	 than	 required	 by	 Brazilian	 legislation.	 In	 order	 to	 develop	 productive	
forest	area,	Klabin	uses	the	mosaic	concept	where	pine	and	eucalyptus	plantations	are	mixed	with	areas	
of	 native	 forests	 Brazilian	 Atlantic	 Forest	 in	 order	 to	 create	 ecological	 corridors.	 Additionally,	 the	
company	does	not	use	genetically-modified	(GM)	seedlings	in	forestry	operations	and	has	committed	
that	 no	 Green	 Bond	 proceeds	 will	 be	 allocated	 to	 the	 introduction	 of	 GM	 organisms	 in	 its	 forestry	
operations.		
	
Sustainalytics	 is	 of	 the	 opinion	 that	 Klabin	 has	 followed	 best	 practices	 in	 managing	 its	 forests	 and	
protecting	natural	resources	through	both	the	FSC	certification	as	well	as	the	ISO	14001	certification,	
and	through	adoption	of	sustainable	environmental	practices.	Sustainalytics	believes	that	such	practices	
enable	 Klabin	 to	 mitigate	 common	 social	 and	 environmental	 risks	 associated	 with	 its	 operations.	
Moreover,	Sustainalytics	has	found	no	evidence	of	major	environmental	or	social	controversies	related	
to	Klabin	and	as	such	is	of	the	opinion	that	Klabin	is	well	positioned	to	issue	Green	Bonds.	

	
7	WWF	Global:	http://wwf.panda.org/about_our_earth/deforestation/forest_sector_transformation/forest_certification/		
8	The	Center	for	International	Forestry	Research	(CIFOR):	http://wwf.panda.org/?219250/Remarkable-social-progress-when-forests-are-

FSCcertified---new-study-confirms		

	
	

15	

©	Sustainalytics	2017	

Section	2:	Impact	of	Use	of	Proceeds	
	
Necessity	of	Research	and	Development	and	Adaptation	Studies	in	the	Pulp	and	Paper	Industry	
As	 one	 of	 the	 largest	 industrial	 sectors	 in	 the	 world,	 the	 pulp	 and	 paper	 industry	 has	 an	 enormous	
influence	 on	 global	 forests.	 Unsustainable	 pulpwood	 production	 can	 negatively	 impact	 climate	 by	
releasing	carbon	into	the	atmosphere,	threaten	fragile	ecosystems	and	species	and	cause	soil	erosion.9	
Sustainalytics	 is	 of	 the	 opinion	 that	 it	 is	 crucial	 for	 companies	 within	 the	 pulp	 and	 paper	 industry	 to	
understand	climate	changes,	within	their	region	of	operation,	in	order	to	adapt	to	climate	change	and	
mitigate	 potential	 risks,	 such	 as	 wildfire.	 Furthermore,	 ongoing	 Research	 and	 Development	 (R&D)	 is	
crucial	in	order	to	continuously	seek	opportunities	to	reduce	negative	environmental	impacts	associated	
with	operations.	
	
Proceeds	from	Klabin’s	Green	Bond	will	support	Research	and	Development	(R&D)	as	well	as	adaptation	
to	climate	change	which	are	in	line	with	Klabin’s	Sustainability	Policy,	in	which	the	company	commits	to	
innovation,	 research	 and	 development	 and	 reducing	 environmental	 impact.	 Klabin’s	 commitment	 to	
reduce	 environmental	 impact	 through	 innovation	 is	 supported	 through	 the	 recent	 establishment	 of	
Klabin’s	Technology	Center	in	the	state	of	Paraná.	The	Center	brings	together	professionals,	laboratories	
and	 state-of-the-art	 equipment	 in	 order	 to	 respond	 to	 current	 needs	 and	 support	 medium	 and	 long-
term	sustainability	projects10.	Klabin	has	also	recently	established	a	Climate	Committee	to	study	risks	
and	 opportunities	 of	 climate	 change.	 The	 study	 was	 based	 on	 internal	 mapping	 of	 recent	 impacts	
observed	on	the	company’s	operations	due	to	climatic	events.	The	Committee	identified	high	severity	
risks,	such	as	temperature	increase	and	increased	frequency	of	intense	heat.	Klabin	has	communicated	
to	Sustainalytics	that	the	outcomes	of	the	climate	study	as	well	as	an	adaptation	plan	is	expected	to	be	
presented	and	endorsed	by	the	Executive	Board.		
	
Sustainalytics	has	a	positive	view	of	Klabin’s	efforts	towards	understanding	effects	of	climate	change	on	
its	 operations	 as	 well	 as	 ongoing	 efforts	 to	 reduce	 negative	 environmental	 impacts.	 However,	
Sustainalytics	 believes	 that	 Klabin	 can	 further	 strengthen	 its	 Sustainability	 Policy	 by	 incorporating	 a	
commitment	towards	adaptation	to	climate	change	and	by	referencing	an	objective	to	create	positive	
environmental	impact	as	part	of	its	R&D	mission	statement.	Lastly,	Klabin	should	ensure	that	proceeds	
from	 the	 Green	 Bond	 used	 towards	 R&D	 are	 only	 allocated	 towards	 activities	 with	 the	 objective	 of	
creating	positive	environmental	impact.		
	
	

	

	
9	https://www.worldwildlife.org/industries/pulp-and-paper		
10	https://s3.amazonaws.com/rs-klabin-2016/klabin_relatorio_impresso_ingles_3.pdf		

	
	

16	

©	Sustainalytics	2017	

Alignment	with	Sustainable	Development	Goals		
The	 Sustainable	 Development	 Goals	 (“SDG”)	 were	 set	 in	 September	 2015	 and	 form	 an	 agenda	 for	
achieving	sustainable	development	by	the	year	2030.	Klabin	acknowledges	the	SDGs	and	the	need	to	
direct	its	actions	and	investments	in	support	of	them	within	its	Sustainability	Policy	and	its	long-term	
development	strategy.		
	
Klabin’s	Green	Bond	advances	the	following	SDG	goals	and	targets:		
	
Use	of	Proceeds	Category	
1.	Sustainable	Forest	
Management,	and	
	
2.	Restoration	of	Native	
Forests	and	Conservation	
of	Biodiversity,		
	

SDG	target	
15.2	By	2020,	promote	the	implementation	of	
sustainable	management	of	all	types	of	forests,	
halt	deforestation,	restore	degraded	forests	and	
substantially	increase	afforestation	and	
reforestation	globally.	
15.5	Take	urgent	and	significant	action	to	reduce	
the	degradation	of	natural	habitats,	halt	the	loss	
of	biodiversity	and,	by	2020,	protect	and	prevent	
the	extinction	of	threatened	species.	
7.2	By	2030,	increase	substantially	the	share	of	
renewable	energy	in	the	global	energy	mix.	

SDG	
SDG	15	–		
Life	on	Land	

3.	Renewable	Energy	

5.	Energy	Efficiency	

SDG	7	–		
Affordable	and	
Clean	Energy	
SDG	9	–		
Industry,	Innovation	
and	Infrastructure	

6.	Waste	Management	

SDG	12	–	
Responsible	
Consumption	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
SDG	6	–		
Clean	Water	and	
Sanitation	
	
	
	

	
	

9.4	By	2030,	upgrade	infrastructure	and	retrofit	
industries	to	make	them	sustainable,	with	
increased	resource-use	efficiency	and	greater	
adoption	of	clean	and	environmentally	sound	
technologies	and	industrial	processes.	
12.4	By	2020,	achieve	the	environmentally	sound	
management	of	chemicals	and	all	wastes	
throughout	their	life	cycle,	in	accordance	with	
agreed	international	frameworks,	and	
significantly	reduce	their	release	to	air,	water	
and	soil	in	order	to	minimize	their	adverse	
impacts	on	human	health	and	the	environment.	
12.5	By	2030,	substantially	reduce	waste	
generation	through	prevention,	reduction,	
recycling	and	reuse.	
6.3	By	2030,	improve	water	quality	by	reducing	
pollution,	eliminating	dumping	and	minimizing	
release	of	hazardous	chemicals	and	materials,	
halving	the	proportion	of	untreated	wastewater	
and	substantially	increasing	recycling	and	safe	
reuse	globally.	

17	

©	Sustainalytics	2017	

7.	Sustainable	Water	
Management	

8.	Eco-Efficient	and	
Circular	Economy	Adapted	
Products,	Production	
Technologies	and	
Processes	

9.	Climate	Change	
Adaptation	

SDG	12	–	
Responsible	
Consumption	and	
Production	
SDG	12	–	
Responsible	
Consumption	and	
Production	

SDG	9	–		
Industry,	Innovation	
and	Infrastructure	
	
	
	
	
	
SDG	12	–	
Responsible	
Consumption	and	
Production	

12.2	By	2030,	achieve	the	sustainable	
management	and	efficient	use	of	natural	
resources.	

12.2	By	2030,	achieve	the	sustainable	
management	and	efficient	use	of	natural	
resources.	
12.5	By	2030,	substantially	reduce	waste	
generation	through	prevention,	reduction,	
recycling	and	reuse.	
9.5	Enhance	scientific	research,	upgrade	the	
technological	capabilities	of	industrial	sectors	in	
all	countries,	in	particular	developing	countries,	
including,	by	2030,	encouraging	innovation	and	
substantially	increasing	the	number	of	research	
and	development	workers	per	1	million	people	
and	public	and	private	research	and	
development	spending.	
12.2	By	2030,	achieve	the	sustainable	
management	and	efficient	use	of	natural	
resources.	
	

	
	
Alignment	with	Green	Bond	Principles	2017	
Sustainalytics	has	determined	that	the	Klabin	Green	Bond	Framework	aligns	to	the	four	pillars	of	the	
Green	 Bond	 Principles	 2017.	 For	 detailed	 information	 please	 refer	 to	 Appendix	1:	 Green	 Bond/Green	
Bond	Programme	External	Review	Form.	
	
	
Conclusion	
Klabin’s	 Green	 Bond	 Framework	 aligns	 with	 the	 four	 pillars	 of	 the	 Green	 Bond	 Principles	 2017.	 The	
company	 has	 established	 clear	 project	 eligibility	 criteria	 that	 are	 recognized	 as	 environmentally	
impactful	by	the	Green	Bond	Principles,	align	with	its	environmental	priorities,	and	support	its	efforts	to	
reduce	its	overall	environmental	impact	across	its	supply	chain	and	operations.	Sustainalytics	is	of	the	
opinion	 that	 this	 is	 representative	 of	 the	 company’s	 holistic	 efforts	 to	 address	 the	 environmental	
impacts	of	its	operation.	Finally,	the	company’s	approach	to	selecting	current	and	future	projects	and	
managing	 Green	 Bond	 proceeds	 is	 robust,	 and	 its	 reporting	 on	 the	 use	 of	 proceeds,	 with	 KPIs	 that	
capture	 environmental	impact,	is	transparent.	Based	on	the	above	considerations,	Sustainalytics	is	of	
the	view	that	Klabin’s	Green	Bond	is	robust	and	credible.	

	

	

	
	

18	

©	Sustainalytics	2017	

	

	
	

	
	
Disclaimer	
All	rights	reserved.	No	part	of	this	second	party	opinion	(the	“Opinion”)	may	be	reproduced,	transmitted	
or	published	in	any	form	or	by	any	means	without	the	prior	written	permission	of	Sustainalytics.	
		
The	Opinion	was	drawn	up	with	the	aim	to	explain	why	the	analyzed	bond	is	considered	sustainable	and	
responsible.	Consequently,	this	Opinion	is	for	information	purposes	only	and	Sustainalytics	will	not	
accept	any	form	of	liability	for	the	substance	of	the	opinion	and/or	any	liability	for	damage	arising	from	
the	use	of	this	Opinion	and/or	the	information	provided	in	it.	
		
As	the	Opinion	is	based	on	information	made	available	by	the	client,	Sustainalytics	does	not	warrant	that	
the	information	presented	in	this	Opinion	is	complete,	accurate	or	up	to	date.	
		
Nothing	contained	in	this	Opinion	shall	be	construed	as	to	make	a	representation	or	warranty,	express	or	
implied,	regarding	the	advisability	to	invest	in	or	include	companies	in	investable	universes	and/or	
portfolios.	Furthermore,	this	Opinion	shall	in	no	event	be	interpreted	and	construed	as	an	assessment	of	
the	economic	performance	and	credit	worthiness	of	the	bond,	nor	to	have	focused	on	the	effective	
allocation	of	the	funds’	use	of	proceeds.	
		
The	client	is	fully	responsible	for	certifying	and	ensuring	its	commitments`	compliance,	implementation	
and	monitoring.	

	

24	

©	Sustainalytics	2017	

SUSTAINALYTICS	
	
Sustainalytics	 is	 an	 independent	 ESG	 and	 corporate	 governance	 research,	 ratings	 and	 analysis	 firm	
supporting	 investors	 around	 the	 world	 with	 the	 development	 and	 implementation	 of	 responsible	
investment	strategies.	With	13	offices	globally,	Sustainalytics	partners	with	institutional	investors	who	
integrate	 environmental,	 social	 and	 governance	 information	 and	 assessments	 into	 their	 investment	
processes.	 Today,	 the	 firm	 has	 more	 than	 300	 staff	 members,	 including	 170	 analysts	 with	 varied	
multidisciplinary	 expertise	 of	 more	 than	 40	 sectors.	 Through	 the	 IRRI	 survey,	 investors	 selected	
Sustainalytics	as	the	best	independent	responsible	investment	research	firm	for	three	consecutive	years,	
2012	through	2014	and	in	2015,	Sustainalytics	was	named	among	the	top	three	firms	for	both	ESG	and	
Corporate	Governance	research.	The	firm	was	also	named	the	Best	SRI	or	Green	Bond	Research	Firm	by	
Global	Capital	in	2015.	For	more	information,	visit	www.sustainalytics.com		
	
	
Sustainalytics	
info@sustainalytics.com		
www.sustainalytics.com		
	
	
	
	
	

	
	

	
	

25	

