 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 KOMMUNALKREDIT  
SOCIAL COVERED BOND 

 

 

SECOND OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

June 1st, 2017 

Catarina da Silva (Amsterdam) 

Senior Advisor, Advisory Services 
catarina.dasilva@sustainalytics.com 
(+31) 20 205 0045 
 
 
 
 

Manager, Advisory Services 

Megan Wallingford (Toronto) 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
megan.wallingford@sustainalytics.com  
www.sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 647 317 3689   
 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 

Vikram Puppala  

Manager,  

Tim Langer (London) 

Senior Advisor, Institutional Relations 

tim.langer@sustainalytics.com   

(+49) 69 3329 6556 
 

Vikram Puppala  

Manager,  

Advisory Services (Toronto) 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

1. 

Introduction 

2.  Overview of the Issuer 

3.  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 

Section 1: Assessment of Kommunalkredit’s Social Mandate 
Section 2: Opinion on Kommunalkredit’s Social Covered Bond Framework 
Conclusion 

APPENDICES 

Appendix A: Project Eligibility Criteria 
Appendix B: Green Bond External Review Form 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

3 

3 

4 
4 
4 
8 

9 
9 
11 

18 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

1. INTRODUCTION 
Kommunalkredit  Austria  AG  (Kommunalkredit),  a  specialist  bank  for  infrastructure  financing  based  in 
Austria,  is planning  to issue a Social  Covered Bond to finance  and refinance existing and new  projects 
related  to  social  infrastructure,  with  a  special  focus on  projects  supporting  education,  healthcare  and 
social  housing.  The  Bond  is  a  social  covered  bond  and  will  be  issued  under  its  Base  Prospectus, 
Kommunalkredit´s EUR 800,000,000 Debt Issuance Programme, dated 7 April 2017, which is disclosed on 
its website.1 
 
Kommunalkredit  has  engaged  Sustainalytics  to  provide  a  second  opinion  on  its  Social  Covered  Bond 
Framework2 and on the framework’s social credentials. As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics held 
conversations  with  various  members  of  Kommunalkredit’s  Management  Team,  Sales  and  Treasury 
Divisions to understand the social impact of their business processes and planned use of proceeds, as well 
as management of proceeds and reporting aspects of Kommunalkredit’s Social Covered Bond. Following 
this  engagement,  some  elements  of  the  Social  Covered  Bond  Framework  were  clarified  to  ensure  an 
alignment  with  the  level  of  disclosure  expected  by  ICMA’s  Social  Bond  Guidance.3  Sustainalytics  also 
reviewed relevant public and internal documents.  
 
This document contains Sustainalytics’ opinion on Kommunalkredit’s Social Covered Bond Framework and 
should be read in conjunction with that framework. 
 
 
2. OVERVIEW OF THE ISSUER 
Kommunalkredit is a specialist bank for infrastructure financing. It acts as a bridge between infrastructure 
developers,  such  as  municipalities,  public-sector  enterprises  or  private  project  operators,  on  the  one 
hand, and institutional investors, such as insurance companies or pension funds, on the other hand. The 
bank  operates  mainly  in  Austria,  Germany,  Switzerland,  France,  the  Netherlands  and  Belgium,  and 
finances  projects  in  ‘Social  Infrastructure’,  ‘Energy  and  the  Environment’,  and  ‘Transport’  areas.4  The 
‘Social Infrastructure’ area includes care homes, health care and educational facilities, and social housing 
and  administrative  buildings;  the  ‘Energy  and  the  Environment’  area  includes  projects  focused  on 
sustainable  sources  of  energy;  and  the  ‘Transport’  area  includes  commuter  transport,  road  and  rail 
transport. The bank, founded as a government entity in 1958, was privatised in 2015 and is headquartered 
in  Vienna,  Austria.  Kommunalkredit  Austria  AG  is  owned  by  Gesona  Beteiligungsverwaltung  GmbH 
(99.78%) and the Association of Austrian Municipalities (0,22%). 
The bank considers sustainability to be fundamental to its business model. As part of its credit evaluation 
process for financed projects, Kommunalkredit assesses the sustainability impact of its loan applicants by 
evaluating social, ecological, and economic criteria.5  

 
1 https://www.kommunalkredit.at/en/investor-relations/bondholder-information-funding/dip/ 
2 Available at https://www.kommunalkredit.at/en/investor-relations/informationen-fuer-fremdkapitalgeber-funding/ 
3 “Social Bonds – Guidance for Issuers”, dated 16 June 2016 issued by the International Capital Market Association (ICMA) 
4 Annual Report 2016, page 29, https://www.kommunalkredit.at/fileadmin/user_upload/Annual_Report_Kommunalkredit_Group_en.pdf.  
5 Kommunalkredit Sustainability, April 10, 2017, https://www.kommunalkredit.at/en/ueber-uns/nachhaltigkeit/.  

3 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

 
3. SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
 
Section 1: Assessment of Kommunalkredit’s Social Mandate 
 
As a bank specializing in infrastructure financing in Europe, Kommunalkredit’s business model focuses on 
public infrastructure, including core areas such as ‘Social infrastructure’, ‘Transport’, and ‘Energy and the 
environment’.  Kommunalkredit  discloses  that,  as  of  2016,  26%  of  its  new  business  was  in  ‘Social 
infrastructure’, 14% in ‘Transport’, and 60% in ‘Energy and the environment’.6  
Kommunalkredit’s Social Covered Bond is closely aligned with its business mandate in social infrastructure 
as the bond will focus on financing and refining social infrastructure projects in the areas of education, 
healthcare,  and  social  housing  (including  care  homes).  Additionally,  it  will  positively  contribute  to 
achieving the company’s mission.7  
 
Kommunalkredit also has a robust policy for screening loan applicants, which is strongly aligned with its 
sustainability mission. Kommunalkredit discloses that it assesses three sustainability areas as part of its 
credit evaluation process for all loan applicants including those projects financed by the proceeds of the 
Social  Covered  Bond.  The  sustainability  assessment  addresses  a  combination  of  Social,  Ecological  and 
Economic issues (refer to Appendix A – Kommunalkredit sustainability checklist).  
 
Overall,  considering  that  the  proceeds  of  the  bond  will  support  social  infrastructure,  and  given 
Kommunalkredit’s  robust  sustainability  criteria  for  loan  applicants  which  includes  a  strong  focus  on 
achieving a positive social impact, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Kommunalkredit is well positioned 
to issue a Social Covered Bond.  
 
 
Section 2: Opinion on Kommunalkredit’s Social Covered Bond Framework 
 
2.1 Positive impact of the use of proceeds and alignment with the Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs) 
 
Proceeds  of  Kommunalkredit’s  Social  Covered  Bond  will  be  directed  toward  investment  in  one  of  the 
company’s  three  core  segments,  specifically  social  infrastructure.  The  eligibility  criteria  specify  that 
Kommunalkredit will use the proceeds of the bond to fund three types of  social infrastructure projects: 
•  Education, including the development of public primary and secondary schools, as well as public 

universities;  

•  Healthcare, including the development of public hospitals, nursing homes, rehabilitation centers, 

psychosomatic centers, and/or homes for the care of the handicapped; and, 

 
6 Kommunalkredit, Company Profile Presentation, provided via email. 
7 Kommunalkredit’s mission: “ensure [the] sustainable success [of] projects in areas such as energy and environment, social infrastructure, and 
transport”; https://www.kommunalkredit.at/en/ueber-uns/ueber-uns/  

4 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

•  Social housing, including the development of subsidized housing and/or retirement or pension 

homes. 

In  addition,  to  be  considered  an  Eligible  Asset,  the  projects  cannot  finance  excluded  activities  (i.e. 
exclusionary  criteria)  and  must  comply  with  all  analysed  criteria  in  Kommunalkredit’s  sustainability 
checklist and achieve a positive social impact in the social dimension criteria.  
 
Overall, Sustainalytics is confident that given the eligibility criteria defined in the Kommunalkredit Social 
Covered Bond Framework, and sustainability assessments performed by Kommunalkredit, the selected 
assets will have a positive social impact on Kommunalkredit’s European markets by: 

1.  Addressing  the  needs  of  vulnerable  populations  such  as  youth,  elderly,  physically  or  mentally 

dependent persons, persons suffering from illness, and low-income households; 

2.  Contributing to the achievement of the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): 

•  SDG 1: No Poverty; 
•  SDG 3: Good Health and Well-being; 
•  SDG 4: Quality Education; 
•  SDG 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities. 

3.  Advance the European Commission’s Europe 2020 Strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive 

growth; and, 

4.  Advance  Kommunalkredit’s  mission  of  supporting  sustainability  projects  in  energy  and  the 

environment, social infrastructure, and transport. 

 
Below, Sustainalytics provides an opinion on the positive social impact of the eligibility criteria outlined in 
the  Social  Covered  Bond  Framework,  how  these  impacts  align  with  regional  and  global  development 
priorities, and any limitations. 
 
EDUCATION 

Kommunalkredit  will  finance  or  refinance  existing  or  new  projects  for  the  construction,  maintenance 
and/or  renovation  of  public  education  facilities  in  its  European  markets.  Specifically,  proceeds  of  the 
Social Covered Bond will support the development of public schools, including kindergarten schools, and 
primary and secondary schools, as well as public universities, providing significant social benefit to youth 
of all ages. Given that public education in Europe is available for all citizens, Sustainalytics is of the opinion 
that  all  citizens,  including  vulnerable  populations,  will  benefit  from  these  projects.  Specifically,  the 
European Commission identified access to education (for example, access to preschools and accessing 
primary and secondary schools) one of the important factors that determine the risk of poverty or social 
exclusion among vulnerable populations8.  
 
For example, Kommunalkredit is financing a public university campus for the Federal Real Estate Agency 
in Austria. The campus comprises of seven buildings, as well as publicly accessible grounds. The campus 
services 25,000 students, in addition to 1,500 teachers, researchers and administrative staff. 
    

 
8 http://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/statistics-explained/index.php/Europe_2020_indicators_-_poverty_and_social_exclusion 
 

5 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

 
Education is considered a fundamental right according International Covenant on Economic, Social and 
Cultural  Rights,9  and  among  seven  priority  areas  outlined  in  the  European  Commission’s  Europe  2020 
strategy.10 Enabling access to quality education for youth is necessary for building a skilled workforce, 
reducing  inequalities,  and  ensuring  a  country’s  competitiveness.  Education  projects  funded  by  the 
proceeds  of  Kommunalkredit’s  Social  Covered  Bond  also  align  with  and  support  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs), including SDG 4 Quality Education: Ensuring inclusive and equitable quality 
education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. 
 
HEALTHCARE 

Kommunalkredit  will  finance  or  refinance  existing  or  new  projects  for  the  construction,  maintenance 
and/or  renovation  of  healthcare  facilities  in  its  European  markets.  Specifically,  proceeds  of  the  Social 
Covered  Bond  will  support  the  development  of  public  hospitals,  nursing  homes  for  the  elderly, 
rehabilitation  centres,  psychosomatic  centres,  and  homecare  for  the  handicapped.  For  example, 
Kommunalkredit is financing an Austrian company that operates five state hospitals. As of 2015, these 
five  hospitals  combined  provide  2,322  beds  for  acute  and  post-acute  treatment,  170  beds  for 
rehabilitation, and 189 beds for chronic disease.  
    
Kommunalkredit’s loans supporting healthcare projects are aligned with European priorities, as well as 
internationally  agreed  sustainable  development  priorities.  One  of  the  three  pillars  in  the  European 
Commission’s  Europe  2020  Strategy  is  Inclusive  Growth,  where  ‘reducing  healthcare  inequalities’  is 
considered key to combatting poverty and social exclusion.11 Furthermore, healthcare projects funded by 
the proceeds of Kommunalkredit’s Social Covered Bond also align with and support SDG 3 Good Health 
and Wellbeing: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. 
 
SOCIAL HOUSING 

Kommunalkredit’s  Social  Covered  Bond  will  finance  or  refinance  existing  or  new  projects  for  the 
construction,  maintenance  or  renovation  of  social  housing  projects,  including  subsidized  housing  and 
homes  for  elderly  care  in  its  European  markets.  Projects  that  meet  the  subsidized  housing  eligibility 
criteria will include projects where a percentage of the total housing project that receives financing is 
subsidized. Sustainalytics is of the view that these projects will support vulnerable populations, especially 
low-income  households,  since  the  eligible  tenants  will  be  selected  based  on  criteria  outlined  in  state 
subsidy  laws  relating  to,  for  instance,  an  income  ceiling  requirement.  Sustainalytics  notes  that 
Kommunalkredit is not responsible for operating social housing projects in its European markets, and it is 
not involved in the application of selection criteria for awarding subsidized housing to target populations. 
For  example,  Kommunalkredit  is  not  involved  in  ensuring  subsidized  housing  applicants  meet  the 

 
9 International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights: http://www.ohchr.org/EN/ProfessionalInterest/Pages/CESCR.aspx.  
10European Commission, Europe 2020:  http://ec.europa.eu/eu2020/pdf/COMPLET%20EN%20BARROSO%20%20%20007%20-
%20Europe%202020%20-%20EN%20version.pdf.  
11 European Commission, Europe 2020:  http://ec.europa.eu/eu2020/pdf/COMPLET%20EN%20BARROSO%20%20%20007%20-
%20Europe%202020%20-%20EN%20version.pdf. 

6 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

qualification criteria outlined in Austria’s state subsidy law, and hence it cannot be held liable in case some 
of the dwellings are not properly allocated over the term of the bond. 
 
With  respect  to  homes  for  the  elderly,  projects  will  include  retirement  or  pension  homes,  providing 
significant  social  benefits  to  elderly  person  in  Kommunalkredit’s  European  markets.  For  example, 
Kommunalkredit has financed the construction and rehabilitation of a retirement home project in the city 
of Vienna. The retirement home includes over 198 single flats and 10 double flats, where each flat is built 
to meet the needs of the individual resident.  
 
Kommunalkredit’s loans supporting social housing for low-income households and elderly is aligned with 
European priorities, as well as internationally agreed sustainable development priorities. One of the seven 
priorities  of  the  Europe  2020  strategy  is  combatting  poverty  and  social  exclusion.12  Additionally,  the 
development  of  housing,  especially  “affordable  housing  of  good  quality”,  is  one  of  the  objectives  of 
European  Commission’s  Urban  Agenda  for  the  EU.13  Affordable  housing  is  important  for  addressing 
poverty, supporting  social inclusion,  reducing  inequalities  and  building  more sustainable  and  inclusive 
communities. Finally, social housing projects funded by the proceeds of Kommunalkredit’s Social Covered 
Bond  also  align  with  and  support  the  SDGs,  including  SDG  1  No  Poverty:  End  poverty  in  all  its  forms 
everywhere,  and  SDG  11  Sustainable  Cities  and  Communities:  Make  cities  and  human  settlements 
inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. Both SDGs strive to ensure access to affordable housing for all. 
   
Providing  affordable  housing  is  an  increasing  challenge  in  Europe,  especially  in  the  case  of  vulnerable 
groups  such  as  single-parent  households  with  dependents,  youth,  and  low-income  households.14 
Moreover, in its 2015 State of Housing in Europe report, Housing Europe found that new social housing 
production has declined in most European countries, while the demand for social housing has increased.15 
As a result, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Kommunalkredit’s financing of social housing projects will 
have a positive impact in addressing these social housing challenges. 
 
 
2.2 Alignment of the Social Covered Bond framework with the Social Bond Guidance 
Sustainalytics has determined that the Kommunalkredit Social Covered Bond Framework aligns with the 
four  pillars  of  ICMA’s  Social  Bond  Guidance,  2016  with  respect  to  Use  of  Proceeds,  Project  Selection 
Process, Management of Proceeds, and Reporting. An overview of these four pillars and Sustainalytcs’ 
assessment is provided in Appendix B: Green Bond External Review Form. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 European Commission, Europe 2020:  http://ec.europa.eu/eu2020/pdf/COMPLET%20EN%20BARROSO%20%20%20007%20-
%20Europe%202020%20-%20EN%20version.pdf. 
13 European Commission, Urban Agenda for the EU: https://ec.europa.eu/futurium/en/node/1710.  
14 European Commission: EU Urban Agenda – The Challenge of “affordable housing” in Europe, https://ec.europa.eu/futurium/en/content/eu-
urban-agenda-challenge-affordable-housing-europe-laura-colini-urbact-expert-0.  
15 Housing Europe, State of Housing in the EU 2015, http://www.housingeurope.eu/resource-468/the-state-of-housing-in-the-eu-2015.  

7 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

 
 
 
Conclusion 
In  Sustainalytics’s  opinion  Kommunalkredit’s  Social  Covered  Bond  is  closely  aligned  with  its  business 
mandate to support social infrastructure, as the use of proceeds  will finance and refinance education, 
healthcare  and  social  housing  infrastructure  in  European  markets.  The  social  impact  facilitated  by 
Kommunalkredit’s  lending  acitivites  will  contribute  to  advancing  European  and  global  development 
priorities, including the Sustainable Development Goals. 
 
Sustainalytics is also of the opinion that Kommunalkredit’s Social Covered Bond aligns with the ICMA’s 
Social  Bond  Guidance  2016  on  the  use  of  proceeds  given  both  the  nature  of  the  eligibility  criteria  for 
projects  and  the  vulnerable  populations  served.  The proceeds  of  the  Social  Covered  Bond  will  have  a 
positive  impact  on  vulnerable  populations  by  supporting  access  to  education,  healthcare  and  social 
housing  in  Europe.  Furthermore,  Kommunalkredit’s  Social  Covered  Bond  aligns  with  the  remaining 
recommendations of the Green Bond Principles with respect to transparency around the project selection 
process, management of proceeds, and reporting (see Appendix B for a completed Green Bond External 
Review).  Based on the points above, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Kommunalkredit’s Social Covered 
Bond is robust, credible and transparent.  
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

APPENDICES 
 
Appendix A: Project Eligibility Criteria 
 
In  addition  to  complying  with  thematic  eligibility  criteria,  all  loan  applicants  are  assessed  against  the 
following project eligibility criteria.  
 
Exclusionary criteria - rejection criteria for lending to sensitive industries: 
Kommunalkredit has developed a list of nine exclusionary criteria that apply to all projects financed by 
the  bank,  including  those  funded  by  the  proceeds  of  Kommunalkredit’s  Social  Covered  Bond. 
Kommunalkredit will not knowingly be involved in financing any activities that include an involvement in 
the following areas: 
 

1.  The lending is against law or ethical principles; 
2.  The lending is for the purpose of constructing a nuclear power plant; 
3.  The lending is for the purpose of  financing the production of weapons; 
4.  The lending is for the purpose of  financing a belligerent state16; 
5.  The lending is for the purpose of  financing a customer that did not provide sufficient 

information to evaluate the customer’s creditworthiness; 

6.  The lending business is unclear/not reasonable; 
7.  The lending is for the purpose of  financing a customer with an unclear shareholder structure; 
8.  The lending is for the purpose of  financing businesses that aim to evade national and/or 

international legal regulations; and/or 

9.  The lending is for a business with potential involvement in money laundering (according to Anti-
Money Laundering check developed by Kommunalkredit’s Anti-Money Laundering officers based 
on international guidelines).17 

 
Sustainability checklist  
As part of the evaluation process each criterion is evaluated as positive, negative, or neutral, and 
Kommunalkredit summarizes the results in a chart accompanied by commentary. 
 

Economic Dimension 

1.  Significant impact on economically underdeveloped regions 
2.  Significant impact on the employment rate /number of workplaces 
3.  Significant impact on the level of education /training situation 
4.  Significant impact on infrastructure as productivity factor 
5.  Significant impact on economic efficiency 

 

 
16 Should Kommunalkredit be in a position to finance an asset outside of its core and selective markets than it would follow the policy and 
country list of Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG (OeKB), a specialised institution providing Export credit guarantees; 
http://www.oekb.at/en/export-services/managing-risks/export-guarantees/country-policy/Pages/List-of-Countries.aspx.    
17 Such as the Wolfsberg Group Anti-Money Laundering Questionnaire and Know Your Customer (KYC) Checklist, and the Financial Action Task 
Force (FATF) country risk list. 

9 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Ecological Dimension 
 

Social Dimension 
 

 
 
 

 
 

1.  Significant impact on emission of fine dust and other air pollutants 
2.  Significant impact on CO2 emissions 
3.  Significant impact on the biodiversity 
4.  Significant impact on land and/or water 
5.  Significant impact on reduction of energy consumption 
 
1.  Is the project per se creating social added value? 
2.  Diversity:  significant  impact  on  equal  opportunities  for  minorities  in 

society? 

3.  Gender: significant impact on the equal access to services and goods by 

men and women? 

4.  Significant Impact on the preservation of cultural property and heritage 
5.  Multiplier effect: how can the project be evaluated in terms of a positive 

social example? 
 

 

10 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analysed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 
 

 

 

 
 

17 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics  is  an  independent  ESG  and  corporate  governance  research,  ratings  and  analysis  firm 
supporting  investors  around  the  world  with  the  development  and  implementation  of  responsible 
investment  strategies. With 13 offices globally, Sustainalytics partners with institutional investors who 
integrate  environmental,  social  and  governance  information  and  assessments  into  their  investment 
processes.  Today,  the  firm  has  more  than  300  staff  members,  including  170  analysts  with  varied 
multidisciplinary  expertise  of  more  than  40  sectors.  Through  the  IRRI  survey,  investors  selected 
Sustainalytics as the best independent responsible investment research firm for three consecutive years, 
2012 through 2014 and in 2015, Sustainalytics was named among the top three firms for both ESG and 
Corporate Governance research. The firm was also named the Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
Global Capital in 2015. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com  
 
Sustainalytics 
info@sustainalytics.com  
www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 

18 

