 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

LINK REIT GREEN BOND 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY 

 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 

July 14, 2016 

www.sustainalytics.com 

Vikram Puppala (Toronto) 

Dominic Chan (Singapore) 

Associate Director, Advisory Services 

vikram.puppala@sustainalytics.com 

(+1) 647 317 3694 

 

Responsible Investment Adviser, Institutional Relations 
dominic.chan@sustainalytics.com   
(+65) 3158 3796 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

1.  PREFACE 

2. 

INTRODUCTION 
Link REIT’s Sustainability Framework 
Green Initiatives 

3.  FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 

3.1 Use of Proceeds 

Eligibility Criteria 

3.2 Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
3.3 Management of Proceeds 
3.4 Reporting 

4.  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 

Conclusion 

APPENDICES 

Appendix 1: Adherence to the Green Bond Principles 2016 
Appendix 2: External Certifications and Ratings 

About Sustainalytics 
 

 
 
  
 

 

 

 
 

0 

2 

2 
2 
3 

4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
5 

6 
7 

8 
8 
13 

15 

1 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

1. PREFACE 
Link  Real  Estate  Investment  Trust  (“Link  REIT”)  plans  to  issue  a  Green  Bond  (“Green  Bond”)  and  has 
engaged Sustainalytics to review and provide an opinion on the bond’s green credentials.  As part of this 
engagement, Sustainalytics reviewed relevant public and internal documents and held conversations with 
Link REIT to understand the use of proceeds, management of proceeds and reporting aspects of its Green 
Bonds, as well as Link REIT’s sustainability plan for its own operations. This report contains two sections: 
Framework Overview – summary of Link REIT’s Green Bond framework; and Sustainalytics’ Opinion – an 
opinion on the framework. 
 
2.   INTRODUCTION 
Link REIT is the first real estate investment trust listed in Hong Kong, and currently Asia’s largest REIT and 
one of the world’s largest retail focused REITs in terms of market capitalisation. Wholly owned by private 
and institutional investors, with 100% free float, Link REIT has been listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong 
Kong Limited since 25 November 2005 (HKEx stock code: 823). In 2014, Link REIT became a constituent 
stock of the Hang Seng Index. 
 
Link REIT’s overarching goal is to offer tenants, shoppers, and communities vibrant centres for modern 
living. These in turn provide unitholders with a prudently growing business and steadily increasing total 
return. As at 31 March 2016, the portfolio owned by Link REIT, spanning Hong Kong, Beijing and Shanghai, 
consists of properties with approximately 10 million square feet of retail space, around 72,000 car park 
spaces, and a project under development in Hong Kong, as well as properties with about 1.8 million square 
feet of retail and office space in Mainland China. 
 
The investment strategy of Link REIT is to invest in sustainable retail and commercial properties (excluding 
hotels and serviced apartments) in Hong Kong and other overseas jurisdictions. Link REIT’s business model 
provides a full range of growth drivers encompassing: 
 

a)  Asset enhancement to properties with further income growth potential; 
b)  Asset management of the entire portfolio; 
c)  Acquisition of quality assets with both income and capital growth potential; 
d)  Capital recycling through disposal of non-core assets; 
e)  Property development to design, build and hold new properties; and 
f)  Re-development of existing properties for long-term sustainable growth. 

 
Link REIT’s Sustainability Framework  
Link  REIT's  Sustainability  Framework  comprises  seven  elements  -  Staff,  Corporate  Governance, 
Environment, Asset/Brand, Tenants, Community and Economy.  The sustainability framework provides 
the  structure  to  deliver  Link  REIT’s  strategic  priorities  and  help  guide  its  environmental,  social  and 
governance  contributions.  In  the  Environment  aspect  of  the  sustainability  framework,  Link  REIT’s 
objective  is  to  minimise  its  environmental  footprint.  In  line  with  that  objective,  it  has  identified  and 
implemented the following set of Green Initiatives. 
 

 
 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Green Initiatives 
1.  Energy Efficiency 
Link REIT manages its energy efficiency through its Link Energy Management Programme (LEMP).  Link 
REIT has set a “30/20” vision which aims to reduce total energy consumption by 30% by 2020 using 2010 
as a baseline.  To achieve this, Link REIT has identified projects such as energy efficient lighting, chiller 
replacement and variable speed drives to improve energy efficiency to which the proceeds of the Notes 
may be applied. 
 
2.  Greenhouse Gas (“GHG”) Emissions 
With buildings accounting for over 60% of Hong Kong’s GHG emissions, Link REIT is committed to taking a 
comprehensive  account  of  and  reducing  its  GHG  emissions  including  Scopes 1, 2  and  3.   This  includes 
raising awareness and aligning GHG reduction strategies with stakeholders throughout Link REIT’s value 
chain as well as retrofitting existing buildings to third party verified green building standards.   
 
3.  Water Management 
Link  REIT  has  begun  to  explore  reducing  its  water  consumption  by  adopting  and  implementing  storm 
water management, grey water reuse and water efficient technologies in its shopping centres. 
 
4.  Waste Management 
With the impending introduction of waste tariffs in Hong Kong, treatment and disposal of waste  could 
result in significant additional operating costs. In light of this, Link REIT initiated a study to measure and 
quantify the daily total amount of waste produced from its properties. In 2014/15 Link REIT completed a 
comprehensive  waste  audit,  which  established  a  baseline  to  monitor  performance  of  future  waste 
reduction strategies.  The pilot phase selected seven properties, to assess total waste production and to 
examine practical and responsible options of minimising waste streams. Link REIT aims to reduce waste 
to landfill by 40% by the year 2022.  
 
5.  Low Carbon Transportation 
Link  REIT  promotes  low  carbon  transportation  by  integrating  properties  with  public  transportation 
infrastructure  and  encouraging  the  use  of  zero-carbon  modes  of  transportation  such  as  bicycles  and 
electric vehicles by installing bicycle racks and electric vehicle charging stations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

3 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

3.  FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 
3.1 Use of Proceeds 
The net proceeds of the issuance of Notes will be used to refinance or fund, in whole or in part, existing 
and future projects that are eligible as per the criteria specified below.  
 
Eligibility Criteria  
 In order for net proceeds of the Note to be allocated to a project, the project must meet one or more of 
the following eligibility criteria:  

 

1.  Any project for an existing or new building that has received, or expects to receive, certification 
according to third party verified green building standards including a) Hong Kong BEAM - Silver, 
Gold or Platinum; or b) LEED Silver, Gold or Platinum1. Building project types can include: 

a.  Building developments and redevelopments 
b.  Renovations to existing buildings 
c.  Tenant improvements 

 

2.  Projects which result in achieving, based on third-party assessment, at least a 15% improvement 

in energy efficiency or, a NABERS Shopping Centres rating equal to or greater than 32 or similar 
rating scheme to an equivalent rating level; 
 

3.  Projects such as those that reduce waste to landfill, improve water efficiency, promote adoption 
of low carbon transportation including electric vehicles, and improve climate change resilience. 

 
3.2 Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
The eligible green projects are selected by Link REIT’s sustainability team together with the treasury team 
in  accordance  with  Link  REIT’s  Sustainability  Framework,  Green  Initiatives  and  the  eligibility  criteria 
outlined above.  
 
3.3 Management of Proceeds 
As  long  as  the  Notes  are  outstanding,  Link  REIT’s  internal  records  will  show  the  allocation  of  the  net 
proceeds of the  Notes to existing and future  eligible  green  projects. Pending the  allocation of the  net 
proceeds of the Notes to existing and new eligible green projects, the net proceeds will be used to repay 

 

1 Please see Appendix 2 for details on all external certifications and ratings (HK-BEAM, LEED, and NABERS)  

2 NABERS is an Australian national rating system for measuring energy efficiency, water usage, waste management, and indoor environmental 
quality of a building or tenancy and its impact on the environment. NABERS, Link REIT, and CBRE (an external consultant hired by Link REIT) 
engaged in the first pilot to assess the suitability of using the NABERS rating for shopping centers outside Australia. CBRE applied the NABERS 
methodology to Link REIT’s assets in Hong Kong, with the objective of testing and establishing a framework for NABERS at shopping centers in 
markets outside Australia. Initial results have indicated that the Australian methodology is not directly applicable to Hong Kong’s environment, 
and will need to be adjusted accordingly. Link REIT has been discussing this adjustment directly with NABERS, and with its consultant CBRE. 
Given that this methodology may not be directly applicable to the Hong Kong context, Link REIT has concluded that a target NABERS rating 3 
is the most feasible to include in the use of proceeds eligibility criterion. 

4 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

amounts of outstanding debt. Link REIT will not hold any unallocated proceeds as cash; this is consistent 
with the cash management practices for REITs.  
 
3.4 Reporting  
Allocation Reporting 
Throughout  the  life  of  the  Notes,  Link  REIT  will  make  and  keep  readily  available  through  Link  REIT’s   
integrated annual report, and on a dedicated page of Link REIT’s corporate sustainability website, up to 
date information on the allocation of the net proceeds, to be renewed annually until full allocation and as 
necessary  thereafter  in  the  event  of  new  developments.  This  information  will  contain  at  a  minimum: 
 

1.  The list of eligible green project categories and amounts allocated to these categories;  
2.  The balance amount of unallocated note proceeds; and 
3.  A selection of project examples financed by the net proceeds of the Note.  

 

 
By  including  this  information  in  Link  REIT’s  integrated  annual  report,  the  allocation  of  net  proceeds 
receives an external review from an independent third party. 
 
 
Impact Reporting  
include  qualitative  and  (if  reasonably  practicable)  quantitative 
Where  feasible,  Link  REIT  will 
environmental  performance  indicators  on  the  eligible  green  projects.    Link  REIT  will  disclose  impact 
reporting on its corporate sustainability website. Performance indicators may change from year to year 
and may include some of the following indicators: 
 

1.  List of eligible buildings that received third party verified green building certification; 
2.  Energy consumption reduced per square foot; 
3.  Greenhouse gas emissions reduced by an eligible green project; 
4.  Water consumption reduced; and  
5.  Amount of waste sent to landfill reduced 

 

 
 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

4. SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
Importance of green real estate in climate change mitigating in Hong Kong:  
Hong Kong is a service-based city and does not have energy-intensive industries. As per the Hong Kong 
Government’s  Environmental  Protection  Department  (EPD),  the  burning  of  fossil  fuels  to  generate 
electricity  is  Hong  Kong’s  major  contributor  of  greenhouse  gases,  accounting  for  some  68%  of  total 
emissions in the city3. Since 1997, the Hong Kong government banned the construction of new coal-fired 
generating units in favour of natural gas, which emits less greenhouse gas per unit of electricity produced. 
Nonetheless, the major source of power generation in Hong Kong remains fossil fuels. Although the two 
main power companies in Hong Kong are exploring the feasibility of developing large-scale offshore wind 
farms,  it  is  estimated  to  meet  merely  1  to  2%  of  total  electricity  demand  by  2020.  Therefore,  energy 
conservation becomes top priority. With buildings accounting for 89% of the total electricity consumption 
at end-use level in Hong Kong (and 60% of GHGs), promoting energy efficiency in buildings is an effective 
way to achieve energy conservation and help address climate change.  Given this scenario, it is clear that 
real estate companies have  a  large  role to play in Hong Kong in mitigating climate  change. Link  REIT’s 
efforts to improve energy efficiencies of its properties is a step in the right direction. 
 
Importance of waste reduction and water management in Hong Kong: 
According to the Hong Kong Government’s EPD4, with the continued growth in waste levels, Hong Kong is 
expected to exhaust its existing landfills by 2020 if waste levels continue to increase at current levels. In 
2013, the Hong Kong Government is released the Blueprint for Sustainable Use of Resources 2013-2022, 
which aims to reduce the Municipal Solid Waste (MSW) disposal rate by 40% on a per capita basis by 20225 
by expanding recycling, levying duties on waste and improving waste-related infrastructure. Waste is a 
major issue in Hong Kong and so is water management. 
 
The annual per capita consumption of water in Hong Kong is 172.1 m3, making it one of the highest water 
consumers  per  capita  when  compared  to  other  advanced  cities  such  as  Paris,  London,  Singapore,  or 
Melbourne6. Hong Kong does not have any significant agricultural or industrial users, and over 50% of its 
water is for domestic use. However, Hong Kong has few natural lakes and rivers, inadequate groundwater 
sources and extreme seasonable variations in rainfall. Hong Kong relies on mainland China for 70-80% of 
its water, which comes from the Dongjiang River, a major tributary to the Pearl River, 83 km north of Hong 
Kong. The Dongjiang River also serve as a major supplier of fresh water to seven other cities including the 
heavy industrial and commercial centres of Guangzhou, Shenzhen, and Dongguan which means that Hong 
Kong will face increasing competition for water. In addition, this region is water stressed and in the near 
future, Hong Kong may find itself subject to a cap on water or even decreasing total supply of water from 
Dongjiang River.  
 

 

3 http://www.epd.gov.hk/epd/english/climate_change/hkactions.html 

4 http://www.epd.gov.hk/epd/english/environmentinhk/waste/waste_maincontent.html 

5 http://www.enb.gov.hk/en/files/WastePlan-E.pdf 

6 http://chinawaterrisk.org/resources/analysis-reviews/8-things-you-should-know-about-hong-kong-water/ 

6 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Established  environmental  targets:    Link  REIT  discloses  a  number of  environmental  priorities  that  are 
aligned with addressing major issues facing Hong Kong, including energy efficiency, greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emission reduction, water and waste management and low carbon transportation. In March 2014, the 
company achieved its target to reduce energy consumption by 20% from a 2010 baseline. It now plans to 
reduce energy consumption by 30% from the 2010 baseline by 2020. In 2015 Link REIT completed a waste 
audit  of  their  entire  portfolio,  which  established  a  baseline  to  monitor  performance  of  future  waste 
reduction strategies.  Link REIT aims to reduce waste to landfill by 40% by the year 2022. With regard to 
water consumption, Link REIT plans to identify and implement water reduction initiatives. Establishing 
environmental targets and implementing initiatives that help meet these targets indicates a longer-term 
commitment to environment and overall transparency regarding its environmental goals.  
 
Link REIT’s Green Bond Framework: Link REIT’s Green Bond Framework is aligned with the 2016 Green 
Bond Principles with regard to use of proceeds, project selection process, management of the bond and 
reporting (see Appendix 1 for details). Link REIT’s commitment to have a third party such as HK-BEAM or 
LEED certify its green buildings  and obtain a third party (NABERS) energy efficiency rating will provide 
confidence that green initiatives have been successfully implemented. The majority of the Green Bond 
funds will be used for upcoming HK-BEAM GOLD and LEED-GOLD Certified buildings. For existing buildings, 
considering the building and site constraints in Hong Kong, Link REIT would target at least LEED SILVER 
certification. It is to be noted that Link REIT has one existing building that is HK-BEAM Platinum certified. 
With regard to reporting, Link REIT’s commitment to provide, on a best efforts basis, GHG emissions and 
energy consumption reductions, is in line with industry best practice.  An assurance from an independent 
third party about fund allocation further adds transparency to the Green Bond. 
 
Conclusion 
Overall, Link REIT’s Green Bond framework is transparent and provides clarity regarding the outcomes of 
the Green Bond investments. Furthermore, the projects that are expected to be funded using the Green 
Bond proceeds are in line with the climate change mitigation priorities of Link REIT as well as that of Hong 
Kong. 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Appendix 2: External Certifications and Ratings  
 
Building Environmental Assessment Method (HK-BEAM) 
HK-BEAM is a voluntary, third party building certification process, developed in 2009 by BEAM Society 
Limited, providing an independently certified performance rating for a building in clearly defined terms. 
BEAM covers all types of new and existing buildings: residential, commercial, institutional, and industrial. 
It  embraces  and  endorses  exemplary  practices  in  the  planning,  design,  construction,  commissioning, 
management and operation of buildings in the context of Hong Kong’s densely populated, predominantly 
high-rise cityscape. New buildings that are planned, designed, built and commissioned to the standards 
set under BEAM Plus for New Buildings are safe, healthy, comfortable and efficient buildings that sustain 
the quality of life and workplace productivity, whilst minimising the depletion of natural resources and 
reducing environmental loadings. Existing buildings managed and operated to the standards set under 
BEAM Plus for Existing Buildings can maintain high level performance over the life of the buildings.   
 
BEAM is owned and operated by BEAM Society Limited, an independent non-profit organisation whose 
membership is drawn from many professional and interest groups in Hong Kong’s building construction 
and real estate  sectors. Following initial funding from The Real Estate Developers Association of Hong 
Kong (REDA), BEAM development is funded from assessment fees with voluntary support from the efforts 
of BEAM Society’s members and associates, and the professional supporting team. 
 
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) 
LEED is a voluntary, third party building certification process developed by the U.S. Green Building Council 
(“USGBC”), a non-profit organization. The USGBC developed the LEED certification process to (i) evaluate 
the environmental performance from a whole-building perspective over a building’s life cycle, (ii) provide 
a  definitive  standard  for  what  constitutes  a  “green  building,”  (iii)  enhance  environmental  awareness 
among  architects  and  building  contractors,  and  (iv) encourage  the  design  and  construction of energy-
efficient, water-conserving buildings that use sustainable or green resources and materials. 
 
National Australian Built Environment Rating System (NABERS) 
NABERS is a national rating system that measures the environmental performance of Australian buildings, 
tenancies  and  homes.  Put  simply,  NABERS  measures  the  energy  efficiency,  water  usage,  waste 
management and indoor environment quality of a building or tenancy and its impact on the environment. 
 
It does this by using measured and verified performance information, such as utility bills, and converting 
them  into  an  easy  to  understand  star  rating  scale  from  one  to  six  stars.  For  example,  a  6-star  rating 
demonstrates  market-leading  performance,  while  a  1-star  rating  means  the  building  or  tenancy  has 
considerable scope for improvement. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

13 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analysed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

14 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

ABOUT SUSTAINALYTICS 
Sustainalytics is the largest independent provider of 
sustainability research, analysis, and services to investors. 
We serve over 250 institutional investors which include 
some of the world's largest asset owners and asset 
managers. Through over 20 years of experience serving the 
responsible investment (RI) market, we have gained a 
reputation for providing high-quality ESG research 
solutions and excellent client service. 

Sustainalytics is headed by seasoned professionals in the 
field of business, finance, and sustainability, with a wealth 
of experience in the Responsible Investment area. After 
more than 20 years of local experience and expertise in the 
Responsible Investment (RI) market Sustainalytics has 
developed a comprehensive understanding of trends and 
best practices and a solid process to assist organisations in 
integrating ESG considerations into their policies and 
strategies. We have worked with some of the world’s 
financial institutions including pension plans, investment 
managers and banks providing customised support to help 
them achieve their RI objectives. Clients include ABN 
AMRO, APG, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank, ING Bank, 
Lombard Odier, Lloyds Bank, Triodos Bank, UBS and over 
250 other financial institutions and organisations. 

Sustainalytics now has a staff of 250 employees globally, 
including over 120 analysts, with operations in Amsterdam, 
Boston, Bucharest, Frankfurt, New York, Paris, London, 
Singapore, Sydney, Timisoara, and Toronto, and 
representation in Brussels and Washington DC. 

In 2015, Sustainalytics was 
named the Best SRI or Green 
Bond Research Firm by 
GlobalCapital. In December 
2014, for the third year in a row, 
Sustainalytics was named best 
sustainable and responsible 
investment research firm in the 
Independent Research in 
Responsible Investment (IRRI) 

Survey, conducted by Thomson Reuters and SRI-CONNECT.  

 
 

15 

