 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

MANN+HUMMEL  

GREEN SSD FRAMEWORK 

SECOND OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

 

 

August 2017 

Catarina da Silva (Amsterdam) 

Senior Associate, Advisory Services 
catarina.dasilva@sustainalytics.com 
(+31) 20 205 0045 
 
 
 
 

Alexandra Rodrigues (London) 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
Associate, Advisory Services 
 
alexandra.rodrigues@sustainalytics.com 
www.sustainalytics.com 
(+44) 20 3514 3123 
 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
 

Tim Langer (London) 

Senior Associate, Institutional Relations 

tim.langer@sustainalytics.com   

(+49) 69 3329 6556 
 

Vikram Puppala  

Manager,  

Advisory Services (Toronto) 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

1. 

Introduction 

2.  Sustainalytics’ Opinion 

Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the Green SSD Framework 
Section 2: M+H’s Environmental Strategy and Performance 
Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds 
Conclusion 

APPENDICES 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

2 

2 
2 
3 
5 
9 

10 

17 

1 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

1. INTRODUCTION 
MANN+HUMMEL (M+H) is a leading global expert for filtration solutions. The company, headquartered in 
Ludwigsburg,  Germany,  develops  filter  solutions  for  vehicles  and  industrial  applications  (including 
industrial filters, membrane filters and equipment for water filtration), clean air filters for interior spaces 
and  solutions  for  sustainable  use  of  water.  The  company,  with  more  than  75  years  of  experience  in 
filtration solutions, has a global presence with more than 80 locations worldwide. The group is owned by 
the families of the two founders. 
 
M+H  has  developed  a  Green  SSD  Framework1  in  accordance  with  which  it  intends  to  issue  a  green 
schuldschein (green SSD). The net proceeds will be used to finance and refinance expenditures related to: 

• 

• 

Products or solutions with an environmental benefit; and 
Improvement  of  the  environmental  performance  of  production  facilities  and  processes  by 
investing in: i) renewable energy generation; ii) energy efficiency; iii) water efficiency, and iv) 
pollution prevention and control initiatives. 

 
M+H  has engaged Sustainalytics to provide  a second opinion on its  Green  SSD Framework  and  on  the 
framework’s  environmental  credentials.  As  part  of  this  engagement,  Sustainalytics  held  conversations 
with  various  members  of  M+H’s  management,  treasury  and  corporate  communications  teams  to 
understand the  environmental and social  impact of their  products and operations  and planned use of 
proceeds, as well as management of proceeds and reporting aspects of M+H’s Green SSD Framework. 
Sustainalytics  also  reviewed  relevant  public  documents  and  non-public  information.  Following  this 
engagement, some elements of the Green SSD Framework were clarified to ensure an alignment with the 
2
level of disclosure expected by ICMA’s Green Bond Principles, 2017. 
 
 
This document contains Sustainalytics’ opinion on the M+H Green SSD Framework and should be read in 
conjunction with that framework. 
 
 
2. SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
 
Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the Green SSD Framework 
Overall, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the M+H Green SSD Framework is robust and transparent. 
Sustainalytics views the following elements of the Framework positively: 

• 

Taking  into  consideration  the  company’s  forthcoming  2018-2026  Corporate  Strategy,  which 
identifies ‘Sustainability’ as one of the key strategic drivers for business development, and M+H’s 
commitment to improve its environmental performance, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the 
green SSD is in alignment with the company’s commitments and Corporate Strategy.  

 
1 Mann+Hummel Green Bond Framework, August 2017. The full version of this framework has been made available to investors. A simplified 

version, omitting confidential information, has been shared publicly and is available at:  

  www.mann-hummel.com/en/corp/group/responsibility-sustainability/ 
2 “The Green Bond Principles 2017”, dated 2 June 2017, issued by the International Capital Market Association (ICMA) 

2 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

• 

The categories for the use of proceeds are aligned with examples provided by ICMA’s Green Bond 
Principles, and Sustainalytics considers that the company has provided a good level of disclosure 
for each category. For considerations on the impact of the use of proceeds please see Section 3.  
•  Given  the  company’s  formalized  processes  to  identify  and  manage  environmental  risks,  and 
achievement of international quality and environmental certifications for most of its production 
sites, Sustainalytics is confident that M+H is well-equipped to manage the environmental risks 
associated with the use of proceeds of the green SSD. Further details on risk management are 
provided in Section 2.  

•  M+H’s  eligible  projects are  evaluated  and  selected  by  a  dedicated  Green  SSD Committee  that 
includes team members from different departments such as Health, Safety and Environment and 
Treasury. Sustainalytics considers this to be in line with market practice. 

•  An external party will verify the internal tracking method and allocation of funds of the green SSD 

within one year from the date of the green SSD issuance. This is line with market best practice. 

•  M+H will provide  investors with a green SSD report on a yearly basis or until full allocation of 
proceeds.  This  will  include  information  on  allocation  reporting  (at  category  level)  that  will  be 
externally audited, information regarding financing vs refinancing, and a description of some of 
the projects implemented. 

 
Finally,  even  though  Sustainalytics  recognizes  that  where  feasible  M+H  intends  to  report  on  the 
environmental  impacts  of  the  expenditures  in  alignment  with  impact  indicators  provided  in  the 
Framework (such as ‘Number of water filtration products or solutions installed by region’, ‘Energy saved 
aggregate’,  ‘Waste  recycled  or  composted’),  and  the  understanding  that  impact  might  be  difficult  to 
measure  for  some  of  the  individual  projects  implemented  in  the  company’s  production  sites, 
Sustainalytics  recommends  the  company  to  strive  for  greater  transparency  with  respect  to  impact 
reporting. 
 
Alignment with Green Bond Principles 2017:  
Sustainalytics  has  determined  that  the  M+H  Green  SSD  Framework  aligns  to  the  four  pillars  of  the 
Sustainability Bond Guidelines 2017. For detailed information please refer to Appendix 1 - Green Bond 
Programme External Review Form. 
 
 
Section 2: M+H’s Environmental Strategy and Performance  
 
Environmental and climate protection: key considerations driving the company’s strategy 
M+H  has  identified  ‘Sustainability’  as  one  of  three  key  transformation  drivers  for  the  company’s 
forthcoming 2018-2026 Corporate Strategy, bringing more focus and a stronger sense of commitment to 
the ongoing efforts to support environmental and climate protection both in M+H’s operations and in 
product  development.  With  this  new  strategic  focus,  the  company’s  management  is  also  seeking  to 
incorporate  sustainability  as  a  core  pillar  of  the  business  through  the  production  of  environmentally-
friendly product innovations (i.e. clean air and water solutions).  
 

 
 

3 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Over the past years, and formally incorporated in M+H’s current Management Policy,3 the company has 
committed to a strong environmental management of both: 

  

a) 

Industrial  operations  –  M+H  monitors  energy  efficiency  and  recycling  rates  on  a  global  scale, 
setting  increasingly  stringent  targets  to  incrementally  improve  the  company’s  performance  in 
these  areas.  In  addition,  the  majority  of  M+H’s  production  sites  have  achieved  ISO  14001 
certification. 

b)  Products -  M+H states that it is committed to limiting the environmental impact of the full life 

cycle of its products.  

 
Furthermore, as an illustration of the company’s growing commitment to sustainability, M+H disclosed 
its energy and CO2 emissions data through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) for the first time in 2016.  
 
Following an analysis of the Green SSD Framework and of the eligible portfolio for the first green SSD 
issuance, Sustainalytics is confident that the eligible categories for the use of proceeds from the green 
SSD align with the company’s commitments and the forthcoming 2018-2026 Corporate Strategy. Proceeds 
used for the development of products and solutions with environmental benefits  align with the firm’s 
sustainability-focused  strategic  redirection,  while  proceeds  used  to  improve  the  environmental 
performance  of  production  facilities  contribute  to  enhancing  the  company’s  overall  environmental 
performance.  
 
A proactive approach to addressing environmental risks 
Mann Hummel’s environmental and social risk exposure stems from two sources:  

(i) 

(ii) 

Operations  -    the  majority  of  M+H’s  environmental  and  social  risks  stem  from  its  global 
manufacturing and distribution presence; 
 Product  risks  -  the  company  is  also  exposed  to  the  environmental  and  social  risks  of  the 
international  automotive  and  mechanical  engineering  sectors,  as  an  original  equipment 
manufacturer to these industries. The company’s renovated strategy, with a greater focus on 
environmentally friendly solutions and supporting ecomobility will contribute to mitigate risks 
of supplying to those industries. The proceeds of the green SSD will support the development 
of those environmentally friendly solutions.  

 
To identify and address risks of its operations, M+H has a comprehensive Health, Safety & Environment 
(HSE) risk management system in place. The company’s risk assessment process includes five steps:  

1)  Identify hazards and/or environmental aspects: Involves identifying hazards associated with each 
work activity, including mechanical hazards, non-mechanical hazards and environmental impacts, 
and the type of potential harm.  

2)  Identify who or what can be harmed: Who can be harmed includes e.g. employees, contractors, 

and what can be harmed includes e.g. pollution of the ground, air, or water.  

3)  Evaluate the risk: Assess the likelihood of an occurrence of a hazardous event and the severity of 

injury, ill health or effect on the environment of that event, “Likelihood x Severity = Risk”.  

 
3 https://www.mann-hummel.com/en/corp/group/certificates/ 

 
 

4 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

4)  Control/manage the risks: Implement the appropriate processes and/or procedures to reduce the 
risk of harm or damage based on the hierarchy of controls, such as elimination, substitution, or 
engineering controls.  

5)  Monitor and Review: Periodic monitoring of controls and a formal review should be carried out 

at least once a year.  

 
All production sites are certified in alignment with the internationally recognized ISO 9001  and ISO/TS 
16949:2009  quality  management  standards.  Most  of  the  sites  also  have  ISO  14001  environmental 
management certifications, and a select few have OHSAS 18001 certification. At product level, while all 
products have quality certifications not all solutions have environmental certifications.  
 
Given the company’s i) new strategic focus which will support the production of environmentally friendly 
solutions,  ii)  formalized  processes  to  identify  and  manage  environmental  risks  and  iii)  achievement  of 
international  quality  and  environmental  certifications  for  most of  its  production  sites,  Sustainalytics  is 
confident  that  M+H  is  well-equipped  to  manage  the  environmental  risks  associated  with  the  use  of 
proceeds of the green SSD.  
 
 
Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds  
Proceeds of the bond will be directed towards two categories:  
1)  Products or solutions with an environmental benefit; and 
2)  Improvement of the environmental performance of production facilities and processes by investing 
in:  i)  renewable  energy  generation;  ii)  energy  efficiency;  iii)  water  efficiency,  and  iv)  pollution 
prevention and control initiatives. 

 
Sustainalytics has reviewed M+H’s Green SSD Framework and is of the opinion that the proceeds from 
the SSD will have distinct environmental benefits. Below, Sustainalytics provides an opinion on the impact 
of  the  M+H’s  green  SSD  eligibility  criteria,  considering  also  the  geographic  context  of  the  company’s 
production sites and the products’ end markets.  
 
Impact of products and solutions with an environmental benefit 
Considering M+H’s new strategic ambitions, it is expected that the company will increase its business and 
investments focused on providing technologies and solutions with a sustainability benefit over the next 
years. For the first use of proceeds’ category, Sustainalytics highlights the explicit commitment of M+H to 
exclude any expenses related to products or solutions that are part of the combustion engines automotive 
value chain. Further detail on the eligible solutions is provided in below.  
 
Water filtration solutions  
The first category of solutions M+H has earmarked for the proceeds of the green SSD, are the company’s 
water filtration solutions. These include membranes and systems for a wide variety of applications such 
as ultrafiltration, bio-membrane reactors, and reverse osmosis. 
 
In Sustainalytics’ view the treatment of industrial and municipal wastewater utilizing such water filtration 
products produces key environmental benefits, and contributes to sustainable development in several 

 
 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

regions  where  M+H  operates  such  as  China  and  Brazil.  Rough  estimates  suggest  that  80-90%  of 
wastewater in developing countries is discharged directly into natural bodies of water, which contributes 
to the spread of water-borne diseases and dampening of economic development in addition to damaging 
the environment. Moreover, wastewater treatment provides a “new” water source for commercial and 
industrial applications, thereby reducing the existing pressure on natural water sources.4  
 
The  pollution  prevention  and  reduction  of  water  demand  through  water  filtration  solutions  are  also 
particularly relevant for emerging markets and developing countries, which face more significant water 
contamination and scarcity issues. According to M+H’s 2013-2017 sales figures,5 these regions account 
for approximately 40% of the company’s water filtration product sales, with China, India, Indonesia, and 
the  Philippines  being  their  major  end-markets.  China  and  India  are  among  the  growing  number  of 
countries that are depleting non-replenishable aquifers to meet rising water demand.  These countries 
also have poor records of wastewater treatment, with only 14% of wastewater treated in Indonesia, 10% 
in the Philippines, and just 9% in India.6   
 
In  addition  to  the  pollution  and  water  supply  benefits,  M+H’s  water  filtration  products  also  provide 
tangential environmental benefits as a result of optimized product functionality. For example, the BIO-
CEL and BIO-CEL XL filtration modules for biological wastewater treatment have a patented mechanical 
cleaning  process  through  which  filters  are  continuously  cleaned  with  organic  granulate  material.  This 
prevents the build-up of waste sludge inside the filters and optimizes pressure levels, therefore reducing 
the energy demand of the solution.  
 
As  such,  M+H’s  water  filtration  products  provide  clear  environmental  and  sustainable  development 
benefits in both their end-markets and advanced functionality.  
 
 
Compression filters and solutions  
M+H has selected solutions from its compression business as an eligible use of green SSD proceeds. An 
example is the M+H’s StarBox2, which has been shown to deliver energy efficiency gains relative to other 
similar products that equate to energy savings of approximately 1,350 kWh per year per compressor. Due 
to its resource optimization and efficient operation, the StarBox2 won the 2017 Baden-Wuerttemberg 
Environmental Technology Award in the category for energy efficiency.7  
While  Sustainalytics  recognizes  that  compression  solutions  do  not  produce  as  outright  of  an 
environmental benefit as do the water filtration products, the impact lies in the superior functionality of 
the  compression  products  that  generates  an  improved  environmental  performance  relative  to market 
peers (eco-efficiency).  
 
 

 
4 https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/water/unsgab/wastewater 
5 YTD – July 2017 
6 https://www.adb.org/sites/default/files/publication/189411/awdo-2016.pdf 
7 https://www.mann-

hummel.com/en/corp/news/news/newsdetail/?tx_ttnews%5Btt_news%5D=1132&cHash=80e6b79cdcc2eb342e36428b7254b0b3 

6 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Electrified propulsion solutions 
A third product category is electrified propulsion, which includes high-voltage (HV) battery and fuel cell 
solutions. The company has various solutions that protect the HV batteries used in hybrid, plug-in hybrid, 
and battery electric vehicles from contamination, thus increasing system performance and durability. An 
example is the M+H degassing units, which are used in BMW’s five-door urban electric car model, the 
Mega City i3.  
 
In addition, fuel cell filters have applications in energy-efficient combined heat and power installations 
and fuel cell-powered forklift trucks. Both products in this category have received industry awards.8  
 
In Sustainalytics’ view, the main environmental benefit of the electrified propulsion products is that they 
support hybrid and electric manufacturer customers to penetrate the market with improved and more 
durable products, contributing to the growth of this automotive segment and leading to a reduction in 
global transportation GHG emissions. While somewhat indirect, the allocation of green SSD proceeds for 
HV  battery  and  fuel  cells  solutions  contributes  to  the  environmental  benefits  associated  with  greater 
uptake of environmentally friendly vehicles.  
 
Air filtration solutions  
The primary benefit of M+H’s air filtration products is to improve air quality by monitoring and reducing 
factors that contribute to indoor air pollution, such as volatile organic compounds, particulate matter, 
allergens, and dust. Sustainalytics recognizes that the reduction of indoor air pollution serves to improve 
health,  and  therefore  is  considered  to  be  more  of  a  social  benefit  as  opposed  to  an  environmental 
improvement. However, M+H’s air filtration products generate a supplementary environmental benefit 
by performing better on energy efficiency relative to the products of their market peers. Typically, energy 
accounts for around 80% of a filter’s life cycle cost. Therefore, a filter’s energy efficiency has an impact 
both  in  terms  costs  and  environmental  performance.  The  European  Industry  Association  for  Indoor 
Climate, Process Cooling, and Food Cold Chain Technologies (Eurovent) has certified M+H’s air filtration 
solutions, attributing a A+ rating for energy performance. Only a small portion of solutions in the market 
reached the highest certification level.    
 
Furthermore, M+H  is also currently  testing new  filter  solutions developed to prevent dust  particles of 
vehicle braking systems from entering the environment. This is particularly important as the amount of 
fine dust caused by braking in city traffic has negative environmental impacts, particularly within areas 
with  high  traffic  density  and  braking  frequency.  According  to  several  studies,  in  urban  environments, 
brake  wear  can  contribute  up  to  55%  by  mass  to  total  non-exhaust  traffic-related  particulate  matter 
emissions. As exhaust emissions control become stricter, relative contributions of non-exhaust sources 
(e.g. brake wear) to traffic-related emissions will become more significant and will raise discussions on 
possible regulatory needs.9 M+H’s own research shows that brake dust emissions are five to eight times 
higher than exhaust emissions from a modern Euro 6 Diesel car. 

 
8 The Cathode Air Filter won the f-cell Classic Award in 2013, which is administered by the Baden-Württemberg Ministry of the Environment 
together with the Stuttgart Region Economic Development Corporation. The Ion Exchange Filter received the “Best Innovator China - Merit 
Award” in 2015 (A.T. Kearney). 

9 Source: European Commission, Joint Research Centre, Sustainable Transport Unit (STU), Institute for Energy and Transport (IET), Via E Fermi 

2749, 21027 Ispra, Italy. Author: Theodoros Grigoratos. 

7 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

As a final example, M+H has developed the Eco16 Clean Air Management method, which ensures that an 
air filtration system delivers optimal air quality with the lowest possible environmental impact through 
enhanced energy efficiency. Improving the energy efficiency of heating, ventilation, and air conditioning 
(HVAC)  solutions  is  important  for  reducing  the  energy  consumption  and  environmental  footprint  of 
buildings. For example, the commercial and residential building sectors account for 39% of CO2 emissions 
in the U.S. every year, and HVAC needs account for about a third of total building energy use.10  
 
Impact of improving environmental performance of production facilities and processes 
The  second  use  of  proceeds  pertains  to  the  financing  and  refinancing  of  projects  to  improve  the 
environmental  performance  of  M+H’s  production  facilities.  These  projects  include  expenditures 
supporting: i) renewable energy generation; ii) energy efficiency; iii) water efficiency, and iv) pollution 
prevention and control initiatives.  
 
Sustainalytics has a positive view on the fact that M+H has defined additional environmental and social 
criteria to select production facilities that are eligible to receive financing. Specifically, eligible facilities 
need  to  have  an  environmental  management  system  in  place,  a  quality  management  system, 
acknowledgement of human and labour rights and a health and safety management system.  
 
The  broader  environmental  impact  of  such  projects  can  be  understood  by  looking  at  the  geographic 
context of various production facilities. For example, in recent years M+H has implemented a number of 
environmental improvement initiatives in its production facility in Mexico that span across all four project 
categories.  In  terms  of  pollution  prevention  and  control,  the  company  reportedly  reduced  the  waste 
disposed in landfills in this facility by 78% (27.4 tonnes) in 2014 compared to the previous year. Mexico is 
still  developing  a  comprehensive  urban  waste  collection  and  processing  systems,  as  well  as  a  formal 
recycling industry.11 As such, efforts that support waste treatment, recycling, and the diversion of solid 
waste from landfills generate important environmental benefits in the Mexican context. Regarding energy 
efficiency, the production floor was fitted with high-efficiency LED lighting in 2016, which reduced energy 
consumption  by  181,161kWh  annually,  as  well  as  automatic  on-off  sensors  for  lighting  that  can  save 
214,434kWh each year. These industrial energy efficiency improvements are relevant in terms of Mexico’s 
ambitious energy-related emissions targets. 12  
 
Sustainalytics recognizes that, with respect to investments in energy efficiency, recommended practice in 
the  green  bond  market  is  to  invest  in  technologies  that  ensure  a  minimum  of  20-30%  performance 
improvement in energy efficiency. Sustainalytics recommends that  M+H always strives to achieve that 
level  of  improvement  for  projects  financed  with  the  proceeds  of  the  green  SSD,  but  understands  the 
limitations of having such performance improvement verified at project level. 
 
 

 
10 https://www.eia.gov/tools/faqs/faq.php?id=86&t=1 
11 https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2012/jan/09/waste-mountain-mexico-city 
12 As part of the Paris Agreement, Mexico has pledged a 25% reduction in greenhouse gases by 2030 relative to business-as-usual projections, 

and the domestic General Climate Change Law passed in 2012 seeks to reduce GHG emissions by 50% by 2050. 

8 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Conclusion 
Taking  into  consideration  the  M+H’s  forthcoming  2018-2026  Corporate  Strategy,  which  identifies 
sustainability as one of the key strategic drivers for business development, and M+H’s pledge to improve 
its environmental performance, Sustainalytics is of the opinion the green SSD will contribute to advancing 
the company’s commitments. M+H’s Green SSD intends to (re)finance the company’s investments in:  

a) Products or solutions with an environmental benefit; and  
b) Improvement of the environmental performance of production facilities and processes by investing 
in:  i)  renewable  energy  generation;  ii)  energy  efficiency;  iii)  water  efficiency,  and  iv)  pollution 
prevention and control;  

Sustainalytics considers that these investments align with examples provided by the ICMA Green Bond 
Principles,  and  that  the  company  has  provided  a  good  level  of  disclosure  regarding  the  potential 
environmental benefits of each category.  
 
Furthermore, given the company’s i) new strategic focus, ii) formalized processes to identify and manage 
environmental risks and iii) achievement of international quality and environmental certifications for most 
of its production sites, Sustainalytics is confident that M+H is well-equipped to manage the environmental 
risks associated with the use of proceeds of the green SSD.  
 
With respect to reporting, M+H will provide investors a yearly Green SSD report (or until full allocation of 
proceeds),  which  will  include  information  on  allocation  reporting  (at  category  level),  information 
regarding financing vs refinancing and a description of some of the projects implemented. The internal 
tracking method and allocation of funds will be verified by an external auditor, in line with market best 
practices.  
With regard to impact reporting, where feasible, M+H intends to disclose the environmental impacts of 
the expenditures  in alignment  with impact indicators provided in the  Framework (such as  ‘Number of 
water filtration products or solutions installed by region’, ‘Energy saved aggregate’, ‘Waste recycled or 
composted’). Even though Sustainalytics recognizes that measuring the impact of some of the individual 
projects implemented in the company’s production sites might be difficult, Sustainalytics recommends 
the company to strive for greater transparency with respect to impact reporting. 
 
Based  on  the  above,  Sustainalytics  is  confident  that  the  M+H  Green  SSD  Framework  is  robust  and 
transparent, and in alignment with the four pillars of ICMA’s Green Bond Principles 2017. 
 
 

 

 

 
 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 
 

 

 

 
 

16 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics  is  an  independent  ESG  and  corporate  governance  research,  ratings  and  analysis  firm 
supporting  investors  around  the  world  with  the  development  and  implementation  of  responsible 
investment  strategies. With 13 offices globally, Sustainalytics partners with institutional investors who 
integrate  environmental,  social  and  governance  information  and  assessments  into  their  investment 
processes.  Today,  the  firm  has  more  than  300  staff  members,  including  170  analysts  with  varied 
multidisciplinary  expertise  of  more  than  40  sectors.  Through  the  IRRI  survey,  investors  selected 
Sustainalytics as the best independent responsible investment research firm for three consecutive years, 
2012 through 2014 and in 2015, Sustainalytics was named among the top three firms for both ESG and 
Corporate Governance research. The firm was also named the Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
Global Capital in 2015. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com  
 
Sustainalytics 
info@sustainalytics.com  
www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 

17 

