 
 

MEXICO CITY AIRPORT 

TRUST  

GREEN BOND  

 

 

SECOND OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

 

September 6, 2016 

 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

September 6, 2016 

Vikram Puppala 

Charlotte Peyraud 

Associate Director, Advisory Services  
Vikram.puppala@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 647 317 3694 

 

Senior Advisor, Institutional Relations  

Charlotte.peyraud@sustainalytics.com 

(+1) 646 518 0184  

 
 

 
 

Vikram Puppala  

Vikram Puppala  

www.sustainalytics.com 
PUBLIC 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 

 
 
 
 
 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

1. 

INTRODUCTION 

2.  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 

APPENDICES 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

PUBLIC 
 

3 

4 

10 

17 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

1. INTRODUCTION 
 
Grupo  Aeropuertario  de  la  Ciudad  de  México  (GACM)  is  wholly-owned  by  the  Mexican  Ministry  of 
Communications and Transportation (Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transportes). GACM is the project 
sponsor  that  holds  the  concession  to  build,  develop,  operate,  and  manage  the  new  Mexico  City 
International Airport (Spanish acronym ‘NAICM’). NAICM will be located in the municipalities of Atenco, 
Ecatepec de Morelos and Texcoco in the State of Mexico. GACM is also the parent company of Aeropuerto 
Internacional de la Ciudad de México, S.A. de C.V. (AICM), the sponsor of the existing airport in Mexico 
City (Benito Juárez International Airport).  
 
GACM  intends  to  issue,  through  the  Mexico  City  Airport  Trust  (a  special  purpose  trust  established  to 
finance the development of NAICM), a Green Bond to fund certain environmentally beneficial projects 
associated with the design, construction, development, and operation of NAICM in accordance with its 
NAICM Green Bond Framework, which it has published in a separate document. 
 
GACM  has  engaged  Sustainalytics  to  provide  a  second-party  opinion  on  the  NAICM  Green  Bond 
Framework.  As  part  of  this  engagement  process,  Sustainalytics  held  conversations  with  various  teams 
involved  in  the  development  and  financing  of  NAICM,  including  the  GACM  Treasury  and  the  NAICM 
project management team from Parsons Corporation. These conversations clarified the use of proceeds, 
management of proceeds and reporting aspects of the Green Bond as well as the sustainability strategy 
of NAICM. Sustainalytics also reviewed relevant public documents and non-public documents relating to 
the  design,  planning,  governance  and  construction  of  NAICM  and  provided  its  opinion  on  the  NAICM 
Green  Bond  Framework.  This  document  contains  Sustainalytics’  Opinion  on  the  NAICM  Green  Bond 
Framework and should be read in conjunction with that framework.  
 

 

PUBLIC 
 

3 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

2. SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
 
Economic and Environmental Context of Airports 
NAICM will be located on a 4,431-hectare site in the municipalities of Atenco, Ecatepec de Morelos and 
Texcoco in the State of Mexico, approximately 7.6 miles from downtown Mexico City and only 3.1 miles 
northeast  of the  existing airport.   NAICM  is expected to be  connected to the surrounding region  by  a 
transportation network that includes a subway line, a dedicated bus lane, a bus terminal and access roads 
linking major highways.  
 
With  over  38  million  passengers  in  20151  and  increasing  concentration  of  national  freight  flights  and 
passenger traffic from all over the world, Mexico City’s current airport is one of the most highly transited 
airports in Latin America. As a result of increasing traffic in the past two decades, the airport’s capacity 
has become insufficient to keep pace with the country’s rate development. NAICM is expected to be one 
of  the  largest  airports  in  Latin  America  in  terms  of  passenger  traffic,  with  an  initial  capacity  of 
approximately 57 million annual passengers during its initial phase of operations and approximately 125 
million annual passengers by 20652. Therefore, NAICM is expected to play an important role in Mexico’s 
economic development. 
 
Sustainalytics recognizes that although airports can drive national, regional, and global economic growth, 
their operation inevitably has a number of negative environmental impacts. According to the David Suzuki 
Foundation, the aviation industry accounts for 4-9% of total climate change impact of human activity.3 
Airports contribute to this number indirectly, through contributing to the growth of air travel and traffic, 
and directly, through their own operations. While discussing the negative impacts of aviation broadly is 
beyond the scope of this Opinion on the NAICM framework, the negative impact caused by the operation 
of airports are detailed below.  Operational impacts from airports include emissions of greenhouse gases 
(GHGs),  air  pollution,  disruption  of  biodiversity,  water  pollution  and  safe  disposal  of  wastewater,  and 
challenges in sustainable and efficient use of water.  
 
GHG emissions from airports are caused by the use of heat and electricity by terminal buildings, the use 
of airport vehicles and ground support equipment, and aircrafts and surrounding air traffic. Airports are 
also criticized for the release of harmful air pollutants through their operations such as combustion of 
aviation  fuel,  and  aircraft de-icing  and  cleaning.  Additionally,  airports  can  in  some  cases  cause  loss of 
agricultural land or the disruption of plant and animal habitat in surrounding areas if built on previously 
arable or forested land. Furthermore, water pollution and the safe disposal of wastewater are important 
environmental challenges for airports. Airports are a large source of wastewater from construction and 
rainwater  run-off,  de-icing  of  planes,  and  other  chemical  heavy  aircraft  operations.  Wastewater  from 
airports typically requires substantial treatment before disposal, and can cause significant water pollution. 
Sustainable and efficient use of water for operation such as construction, cement mixing, and for use in 

 
1 http://www.aeropuertosdelmundo.com.ar/americadelnorte/mexico/aeropuertos/mexico-df.php 
2 http://www.aeropuerto.gob.mx/documentos/infonaicmok.pdf; Latest estimates from GACM as of September 1, 2016. 
3 David Suzuki Foundation, http://www.davidsuzuki.org/issues/climate-change/science/climate-change-basics/air-travel-and-climate-change/  
 

4 

PUBLIC 
 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

airport buildings also presents a challenge.4 Airports also have significant indirect negative environmental 
impacts. For example, NAICM is expected to result in higher emissions due to increased car traffic:  the 
Mexican government expects an increase in car traffic of 84% compared to traffic levels caused by the 
current airport.5 
 
GACM’s Green Bond Framework is designed to mitigate a number of these concerns. Within the context 
of the economic need for the airport, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that GACM’s strong management 
practices and the framework’s use-of-proceeds criteria make the NAICM Green Bond Framework credible 
and impactful. 
 
GACM’s Environmental Commitment 
Two ways in which GACM demonstrates a strong environmental commitment is by (i) assuring continuous 
monitoring, registration, and evaluation of environmental impacts of the NAICM project, as required by 
SEMARNAT, and (ii) applying international best practice standards in the development of NAICM.  
 
The  project  received  a  green  light  from  the  Mexican  Ministry  of  Environment  and  Natural  Resources 
(SEMARNAT6) after GACM submitted an environmental impact assessment7 for the NAICM project, and 
established the necessary structure to comply with all SEMARNAT’s requirements, such as creating an 
Environmental Surveillance Committee (Comité de Vigilancia Ambiental8) responsible for the monitoring 
and evaluation of environmental impacts, as further explained in Section 4 reporting of Appendix B below.  
Another condition of SEMARNAT’s approval of the NAICM environmental impact assessments was the 
establishment of a Plan for Monitoring, Registration and Verification of greenhouse gas emissions, and 
the requirement that GACM demonstrate that it has established a carbon neutral footprint for NAICM by 
reducing its electricity consumption by 40% and using clean energy sources. 
 
With  respect  to  GACM  applying  international  best  practice  standards  in  the  development  of  NAICM, 
Sustainalytics has reviewed the reports of an independent consultant that confirms the NAICM project’s 
compliance with the Equator Principles.9  These are financial sector guidelines used to identify, assess and 
manage  the  environmental  and  social  risks  of  projects.  The  project  also  complies  with  the  Policy  and 
Performance  Standards  on  Environmental  and  Social  Sustainability  of  the  International  Finance 
Corporation (IFC).10 
 
Furthermore, GACM has established all the relevant committees and technical teams for environmental 
assessments  to  meet  all  requirements  and  guidelines  of  national  agencies  (SEMARNAT,  SENER11  and 

 
4 Aviation Environment Federation, http://www.aef.org.uk/uploads/PlanningGuide2.pdf ; Federal Aviation Administration’s Airport 

Environmental Program, http://www.faa.gov/airports/environmental/  

5 Car traffic levels are expected to increase from 322,000 cars (traffic levels caused by the current airport in 2014) to 593,000 cars (traffic levels 

caused by NAICM and facilities in 2020).  

6 http://www.gob.mx/semarnat 
7 http://www.aeropuerto.gob.mx/documentos/15em2014v004411.pdf 
8 http://eleconomista.com.mx/industrias/2015/12/06/instauran-comite-vigilancia-ambiental-naicm 
9 http://www.equator-principles.com/resources/equator_principles_III.pdf 
10 http://www.ifc.org/wps/wcm/connect/115482804a0255db96fbffd1a5d13d27/PS_English_2012_Full-Document.pdf?MOD=AJPERES 
11 http://www.gob.mx/sener 
 

5 

PUBLIC 
 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

STyPS12) and international standards. For example, in order to meet all its SEMARNAT measurement and 
reporting commitments, GACM has an internal Sustainability team and has engaged internal and external 
experts such as Mexico’s Instituto Politécnico Nacional (IPN), as further described in Section 4 of Appendix 
B.  
 
GACM’s Social and Transparency Commitment 
In Sustainalytics’ view, GACM is an organization with a strong commitment to social and transparency. 
GACM has established robust and transparent public procurement processes.  
 
For example, GACM has also established a transparency unit13 whose mission is to ensure that relevant 
information is disclosed on GACM’s website  in a timely manner,  including engineering and third-party 
technical  reports  as  well  as  easily  accessible  information  on  the  infrastructure  plans,  procurement 
process, environmental assessments and the organization’s teams and governance structure.  
 
The plan to build a new international airport terminal in Mexico City has faced social protests, including a 
significant episode of violence in 2006 against the people of San Salvador Atenco and the opposition group 
called the People's Front in Defense of the Land, or FPDT in Spanish. A report from the National Human 
Rights Commission stated that the police had used excessive force, made over a hundred arbitrary arrests 
and violated protesters’ human rights14. Currently environmentalists and community leaders in the town 
still claim that a lack of transparency on the part of the government could jeopardize local residents and 
vast tracts of wetlands on the outskirts of Mexico City. 
 
In  2015,  The  Government  of  Mexico  called  on  the  OECD  to  assist  GACM  to  deliver on  its mandate  to 
manage the construction of the new airport. In responding to this request, the OECD brought together 
practices  and  expertise  on  the  governance  of  infrastructure  projects,  public  procurement,  integrity 
frameworks  and  the  related  communication  strategies15.  The  project’s  socials  risks  are  managed  or 
mitigated through the implementation of several mechanisms required by the Equator Principles, such as 
the  disclosure  of  extensive  project-related  information,  the  stakeholder  engagement  process  on  key 
issues (e.g. communal land grabbing), and the availability of risk and impact assessment documentation 
on a dedicated website.  
 
In  Sustainalytics’  view,  GACM  has  taken  significant  steps  to  understand  and  mitigate  the  negative 
environmental impact of construction and operation of NAICM and has a robust and transparent process 
in place for the development of the NAICM project. Thus, GACM is well positioned to issue a green bond.  
 
Impact of Use of Proceeds  
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that GACM’s eligibility criteria contribute to mitigating the specific negative 
impacts of airport construction and operation, as described in the ‘Economic and Environmental Context 
of  Airports’  section  above.  The  LEED-certified  buildings  and  climate  change  mitigation  projects  (as 
described below) will reduce GHG emissions from airport buildings, mitigating the risk of water pollution 
 
12 http://www.gob.mx/stps/ 
13 http://www.aeropuerto.gob.mx/gacm/comite-de-informacion.php 
14 http://www2.ohchr.org/english/bodies/cat/docs/ngos/omct.pdf 
15 http://www.oecd.org/governance/ethics/Full-Mexico-Airport.pdf 

6 

PUBLIC 
 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

through more  efficient  wastewater  management  while  concurrently  promoting  the  sustainable  use  of 
water and conserving the biodiversity of surrounding land. The new airport facilities will have an overall 
lower carbon footprint than the existing airport it replaces. The sections below describe the impact of the 
use of proceeds in detail.  
 
LEEDV4 Certified Buildings 
Energy  efficient  buildings  are  explicitly  recognized  by  the  Green  Bond  Principles  as  offering  clear 
environmental benefits. Buildings are a significant contributor to GHG emissions. For example, in the U.S., 
buildings account for 38% of all carbon dioxide emissions, 73% of all national electricity consumption, and 
13.6% of all potable water consumption. Improving their energy efficiency is a robust way to mitigate the 
effects  of  climate  change.  LEED  certification  is  an  independent  verification  of  a  building’s  energy  and 
resource efficiency; for example, LEED Gold certified buildings can generate up to 34% less GHG emissions 
than the average commercial building. 
 
Based  on  LEED  trackers  and  other  LEED  strategy  and  commissioning  documents  reviewed  by 
Sustainalytics,  the  NAICM  passenger  terminal  is  registered  and  on  track  to  achieve  LEEDv4  Platinum 
certification.  Furthermore,  both  the  Air  Traffic  Control  Center  and  the  Ground  Transportation  Center 
buildings are on track to achieve LEEDv4 Gold Certification. As a part of the LEED certification strategy, 
robust targets have been established for energy and water use efficiency for these three buildings. Please 
see a summary of key performance indicators in Appendix A.  
 
Climate Change Mitigation Projects 
Under the NAICM Green Bond Framework, eligible green projects may include climate change mitigation 
projects  such  as  on-site  renewable  energy  production,  water  and  waste  management,  pollution 
prevention and control, and energy efficiency projects in addition to the LEED certification which applies 
to  the  Passenger  Terminal,  Air  Traffic  Control  Tower  and  Ground  Transportation  Center  buildings 
(“Sustainable Buildings”). All these aspects come together to promote a sustainable airport infrastructure 
with efficient resource use.  
 
Onsite solar PV installations 
The solar radiation levels in the airport location are significantly higher (5.1KWh/m2 per day) than other 
airport locations that use Solar PV technology, which is why the design of the airport terminal, the Air 
Traffic Control center and Ground Transportation Center included onsite Solar PV installations which can 
produce up to 24GWh per year at a reasonable cost. This represents approximately 9% of the airport’s 
total energy consumption. 
 
Energy efficiency projects 
The eligibility criteria  under  ‘Energy Efficiency’ allow the allocation of proceeds to  projects other  than 
those  related  to  LEED  certified  buildings.  This  includes  projects  which  will  have  an  impact  on  energy 
consumption and energy performance in the airport management and operations (going beyond specific 
LEED  certified  buildings)  and  include  distinct  facilities  such  as  Central  Utility  Plants  for  energy  use 
modeling, monitoring and control as well as equipment such as high efficiency chillers, premium efficiency 
motors, variable speed drives and controls, waterside economizers, and thermal energy storage systems. 
 

PUBLIC 
 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Water and wastewater management 
The NAICM project includes various water treatment and management facilities and systems. The final 
objective is for 70% of the water consumed in the airport to come from on-site water and wastewater 
management projects.  
 
The NAICM project is being built in the former Texcoco Lake area is where several rivers conduct mixed 
stormwater and sewage/wastewater from nearby municipalities. Because of this, the development of the 
NAICM project is occurring alongside important government water infrastructure projects including the 
construction of 24 water treatment plants (3 for supporting NAICM). Other extensive works include the 
construction  of  channels,  tunnels  and  drainage  systems  to  protect  the  new  airport  from  potential 
flooding. The carbon footprint of these projects will be significant but it will increase the regulation of 
water,  and  the  volume  of  water  and  wastewater  treated  for  the  benefit  of  the  airport  and  the  local 
population and is part of the larger environmental remediation project in the area. These water works 
projects  were  independently  evaluated  for  environmental  impact  by  CONAGUA  and  approved  by 
SEMARNAT.  
 
Pollution Prevention and Control 
In the near future, the NAICM project intends to transform the issue of illegal waste dumping into an 
opportunity  by  transforming  waste  into  energy  at  the  ‘Bordo  Poniente’  biogas  plant  through  the 
construction of a centralized waste collection and sorting facility that will focus on diverting waste from 
landfill. As designed and in the best case scenario, the NAICM project’s energy consumption will amount 
to 266 GWh while in the local area, 281 GWh16 of clean energy will be produced from solar produced on 
site (8%) natural gas (17%) and waste to energy (75%) sources.  
 
The  airport  may  become  the  sixteenth  airport  outside  Europe  to  be  carbon  neutral  provided  it  can 
compensate the level of emissions generated by the projects for its source of energy: the natural gas and 
biogas projects.17 
 
Biodiversity and conservation 
The  biodiversity  and  conservation  projects  to  be  funded  with  the  bond  proceeds  include  design  and 
environmental impact studies, the creation of an urban forest of 670 hectares and reforestation of 5,000 
hectares in the nearby area of which 2,000 have already been planted. Three hundred hectares of humid 
areas certain for bird species will be created and preserved. 
 
Adherence to the ICMA Green Bond Principles 2016 
In Sustainalytics’ opinion, the NAICM’s Green Bond Framework adheres to the four pillars of the Green 
Bond Principles 2016. Please see Appendix B for more details. 
 

 

 
16 SAADMCR Pre-Plan Maestro; Entrevistas; Subsecretaría de Fomento y Normatividad Ambiental (SEMARNAT) 
17 http://www.airportcarbonaccreditation.org/airport/participants/latin-america.html?filter=1 

PUBLIC 
 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Conclusion 
Although there will be significant GHG emissions from the construction of the new airport, GACM has 
taken a number of steps to mitigate the negative environmental impacts of the airport construction. In 
addition,  by  following  Equator  Principles,  a  commitment  for  extensive  disclosure  and  the  stakeholder 
engagement process, GACM aims to reduce the impact of the airport on the surrounding communities.  
 
GACM has strong systems and commitments to manage the negative environmental impacts from airport 
operations. With the aim of being carbon neutral and conserving the biodiversity of the surrounding areas, 
GACM  plans  to  maintain  and  operate  the  airport  in  a  sustainable  manner.  The  NAICM  Green  Bond 
Framework and green bond issuance may also set a positive precedent for the promotion of sustainable 
infrastructure investment by public sector and state-owned enterprises in Mexico.  
 
By  defining  strong  eligibility  criteria,  demonstrating  a  structured  and  transparent  project  selection 
process, management of proceeds and reporting, the NAICM Green Bond Framework is in alignment with 
the four pillars of Green Bond Principles 2016.  
 
Based  on  the  above  considerations,  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  view  that  GACM’s  Green  Bond  is  robust, 
credible and transparent.  

 

PUBLIC 
 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Overall NAICM Environmental Goals: 
Source: http://www.aeropuerto.gob.mx/acciones-ambientales.php 

APPENDICES 
 
Appendix A: Summary Key Performance Indicators 
 
 
 
 
 
 

To have a carbon neutral footprint 
To sanitize 9 rivers 
Operate with 100% clean energy 
Achieve 30% water consumption reductions 
Achieve 40% energy use reduction relative to  
international standards 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

To seek LEED certification  
To use solar energy for electricity generation 
To treat and re-use water on-site 
To preserve and protect bird habitats 
To remediate an area with environmental 
degradation 

Currently on target for 
at least LEEDv4 Gold 
Certification 

*Note: NAICM project team is conducting detailed energy modeling based on ASHRAE 90.1- 2010 standards that incorporates Mexico City historical weather data as well as 
NAICM Master Architect’s modeling of future occupancy, lighting, equipment usage for various on-site facilities.  

 

PUBLIC 
 

10 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Appendix C: Documents Reviewed 
 
Sustainalytics reviewed the following documents for the purposes of writing this report: 
 

Number  Document Name 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 

Environmental Master Plan  
Environmental Programs related to EIA Resolution 
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) - Reports 
Environmental Feasibility Studies 
GACM press releases 2016 
NAICM Green Bond Project portfolio 
Technical Reports  
LEED v4 – LEED Credit Trackers (Spanish) and Commissioning Plans. 
Solar PV Studies 
Equator Principles Compliance Assessment  
Equator Principles Quarterly Compliance Reports 
Hidraulic Plan 
NAICM and Sustainability presentations 
LEED in Motion: Mexico report 

 
 
Disclaimer 
 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 
 

PUBLIC 
 

16 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
Sustainalytics is the largest independent provider of sustainability 
research, analysis, and services to investors. We serve over 250 
institutional investors which include some of the world's largest 
asset owners and asset managers. Through over 20 years of 
experience serving the responsible investment (RI) market, we have 
gained a reputation for providing high-quality ESG research 
solutions and excellent client service. 

Sustainalytics is headed by seasoned professionals in the field of 
business, finance, and sustainability, with a wealth of experience in 
the Responsible Investment area. After more than 20 years of local 
experience and expertise in the Responsible Investment (RI) market 
Sustainalytics has developed a comprehensive understanding of 
trends and best practices and a solid process to assist organisations 
in integrating ESG considerations into their policies and strategies. 
We have worked with some of the world’s financial institutions 
including pension plans, investment managers and banks providing 
customised support to help them achieve their RI objectives. Clients 
include ABN AMRO, APG, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank, ING 
Bank, Lombard Odier, Lloyds Bank, Triodos Bank, UBS and over 250 
other financial institutions and organisations. 

Sustainalytics now has a staff of 250 employees globally, including 
over 120 analysts, with operations in Amsterdam, Boston, 
Bucharest, Frankfurt, New York, Paris, London, Singapore, Sydney, 
Timisoara, and Toronto, and representation in Brussels and 
Washington DC. 

In 2015, Sustainalytics was named the 
Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm 
by GlobalCapital. In December 2014, 
for the third year in a row, 
Sustainalytics was named best 
sustainable and responsible investment 
research firm in the Independent 
Research in Responsible Investment 
(IRRI) Survey, conducted by Thomson 
Reuters and SRI-CONNECT.  

 

PUBLIC 
 

17 

