 MIZUHO FINANCIAL  

GROUP, INC.   
GREEN BOND 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

September 25, 2017 

Trisha Taneja (Toronto) 

Associate, Advisory Services 
trisha.taneja@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 647 317 3695 
 
 
 
 

Wakako Mizuta  (Tokyo) 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
Associate, Advisory Services 
 
wakako.mizuta@sustainalytics.com 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
(+81) 3 4589 4886 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
 

James Hawrylak (Tokyo) 

Director, Institutional Relations 
james.hawrylak@sustainalytics.com 
(+81) 3 4589 4886 

  

Manager,  

Advisory Services (Toronto) 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Table of Contents 

1. 

Introduction 

2.  Overview of Issuer 

3.  Framework overview 

3.1  Use of Proceeds Eligibility Criteria 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
3.3  Management of Proceeds 
3.4  Reporting 

4.  Sustainalytics’ Opinion 

Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the Green Bond Framework 
Section 2: Sustainability Performance of the Issuer 
Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds 
Conclusion 

APPENDICES 

Appendix 1: Sustainalytics assessment of the strength of the Equator Principles 
Appendix 2: Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

3 

3 

4 
4 
5 
6 
6 

7 
7 
9 
10 
11 

12 
12 
13 

20 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

1. INTRODUCTION 
 
Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. (Mizuho FG) has developed a green bond framework (“Mizuho Green Bond 
Framework”) under which it intends issue multiple green bonds and use the proceeds to finance projects 
related to the three categories: 1) Renewable Energy, 2) Clean Transportation, and 3) Pollution Prevention 
and Control.  Mizuho FG has engaged Sustainalytics to provide a second-party opinion on its framework 
and the framework’s environmental credentials.  
 
As  part  of  this  engagement,  Sustainalytics  held  conversations  with  various  members  of  Mizuho  FG’s 
management team to understand the sustainability impact of their business processes and planned use 
of  proceeds,  as  well  as  management  of  proceeds  and  reporting  aspects  of  the  Mizuho  Green  Bond 
Framework. Sustainalytics also reviewed relevant public documents and non-public information.  
 
This  document  contains  two  sections:  Framework  Overview-  a  summary  of  the  Mizuho  Green  Bond 
Framework; and Sustainalytics’ Opinion- an opinion on the framework.  
 
2. OVERVIEW OF ISSUER  
Mizuho FG is a Japanese bank holding company that is the ultimate parent of the Mizuho Group, one of 
the  largest  financial  groups  in  the  world.  The  Group  provides  a  broad  range  of  financial  services  in 
domestic and overseas markets. 
 
As  a  global  financial  group,  Mizuho  FG  contributes  to  the  sustainable  development  of  society  by 
undertaking  a  number  of  environmental  initiatives.  These  include,  but  are  not  limited  to  addressing 
climate change issues, building a low–carbon society and preserving biodiversity. 
 
The scope of Mizuho FG's environmental activities  can be split into three categories.1 The first is finance 
— providing funds to companies that will undertake environment–friendliness and businesses that will 
contribute to a reduction in the environmental burden. The second is consulting, surveys and research, 
centered around Mizuho Information & Research Institute, Inc., Mizuho FG’s think tank subsidiary. The 
third is the product development and sales of environment–friendly investment products.  
 
Mizuho FG states its belief that part of a financial institution's social responsibility is to provide financial 
support  for  environmentally  beneficial  activities.  For  example,  Mizuho  FG  finances  renewable  energy 
projects  (solar  power,  geothermal,  and  wind  power  generation,  etc.)  by  leveraging  its  accumulated 
knowledge/expertise in project finance.  
 
In order to accelerate its environmental initiatives, Mizuho FG is planning to issue a green bond to finance 
lending to environment-related projects. While the issuing entity will be Mizuho FG, the entity that will 
manage lending to Eligible Green Projects will be Mizuho Bank, Ltd. (Mizuho BK). All of the existing and 
new  projects  to  be  financed  through  proceeds  of  the  green  bond  must  be  eligible  under  the  Use  of 
Proceeds criteria outlined in the Framework Overview section below. 
 
1 https://www.mizuho-fg.com/csr/environment/business/index.html  

3 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

 
3. FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW  
 
An amount equal to the net proceeds from any sale of green bond will be used to fund existing and new 
qualifying environment-related projects (“Eligible Green Projects”), in whole or in part, as defined by the 
eligibility criteria below, and by the Mizuho FG’s internal investment criteria. 
 
3.1  Use of Proceeds 
Eligibility Criteria 
Eligible Green Projects will meet ALL of the conditions below: 

(i)  A project meets one or more of the eligible project categories (a) to (c) below, 
(ii)  A project is categorized as Category B or Category C projects in accordance with the Equator 

Principles, and  

(iii) A loan for a project has been financed by Mizuho BK within 24 months as of issue date of a 

relevant green bond, or will be newly financed on or after the issue date. 

 
As per the Equator Principles2, Category A projects have potentially significant adverse environmental and 
social risks and/or impacts that are diverse, irreversible or unprecedented. Category B projects have 
potential limited adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts that are few in number, generally 
site specific, largely reversible and readily addressed through mitigation measures. Category C projects 
have minimal or no adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts.  
 
Eligible Project Categories 
Eligible Green Projects will include projects meeting one or more of the categories below.  
 
(a) RENEWABLE ENERGY 

The development, construction and operation of renewable energy facilities which generate 
wind, solar, solar thermal, biomass (except sustainable feedstock and viable forest based 
biomass) , geothermal energy, and small hydro facilities with generation capacity of 25 
megawatts or less. 
 

(b) CLEAN TRANSPORTATION  

Projects to develop, operate and upgrade public transportation facilities, infrastructure and 
technologies including expansion and improvements to rail transport, non-motorised transport 
(such as bicycles), manufacturing of  electric vehicles, and multi-modal transport.    

 
(C) POLLUTION PREVENTION AND CONTROL 

The development, construction and operation of pollution prevention and control facilities, such 
as waste recycling and waste-to-energy power plants. 

 

 
2 The Equator Principles: http://www.equator-principles.com/  

4 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
Application of Eligibility Criteria in Project Selection  
Eligible Green Projects are identified and selected to align with the eligibility criteria described above via 
a process that involves participants from various functional areas including Mizuho FG’s Global Products 
Coordination Department and Corporate Communications Department. The selection process of Eligible 
Green Projects, is based on the list of project finances offered by Mizuho BK. Mizuho FG’s Global Products 
Coordination Department drafts the list of Eligible Green Projects - candidate projects that are suited to 
any of Project Categories (a) to (c) mentioned above, and that meet condition iii) above will be proposed. 
Finally, the Corporate Communications Department will select Eligible Green Projects from the candidate 
projects list and confirm that these projects fall into Category B or C based on the Equator Principles. 
 
Environmental Objectives 
Mizuho  FG’s  environmental  policy3 specially  addresses  tackling  climate  change  issues,  building  a  low–
carbon  society,  promoting  a  sound  material-cycle  society,  and  preserving  biodiversity,  among  other 
issues. In addition to the environmental policy, the key environmental initiatives4 are laid out in 6 pillars: 
1) the development of financial products and services that encourage society to promote environmental 
consideration, 2) compliance with environmental laws and regulations, 3) the reduction of using resources 
and  energy  as  well  as  the  management  of  waste  disposal  in  its  business  activities,  4)  the  support  for 
environmental  initiatives  to  its  customers  and  environmental  protection  groups,  5)  the  support  to 
increase  environmental  awareness,  6)  corporation  with  a  diverse  range  of  stakeholders.  Mizuho 
incorporates  these  policies  in  three  types  of  business  activities:  Environmental  Finance  (financing 
environmentally  impactful  projects  and  environmentally  conscious  companies),  Consulting  Service, 
Survey and Research, and Investment Products Development and Sales. 
 
The Mizuho Green Bond Framework aligns with the first pillar of Mizuho’s environmental policy, i.e. the 
development  of  financial  products  and  services  that  encourage  society  to  promote  environmental 
consideration, and also contributes to Mizuho FG’s Environmental Finance business activity.  
 
Furthermore, Mizuho FG also has a target to reduce CO2 by 10.5% by FY2020, and 19% by FY2030 through 
its business activities, compared to FY2009 levels.  
 
Process to Mitigate Environmental and Social Risks 
The  Sustainable  Development  Office  of  Mizuho  BK’s  Global  Project  Finance  Department  (Sustainable 
Development Office) reviews and conducts the required due diligence in light of the Equator Principles, 
and  categorizes  projects  as  Category  A,  B  or  C  based  on  its  internal  environmental  and  social  risk 
assessment process. Such categorization is based on the environmental and social categorization process 
of  the  International  Finance  Corporation.  As  a  part  of  this  process, Mizuho  BK evaluates  a  project  for 
minimal  (Category C), limited  (Category B)  or significant  (Category A)  potential adverse environmental 

 
3 Environmental Policies and Targets, Mizuho Financial Group 
https://www.mizuho-fg.com/csr/environment/policy/index.html 
4 Environmental Policies and Targets, Mizuho Financial Group 
https://www.mizuho-fg.com/csr/environment/policy/index.html 
 

 
 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

and  social  risk.  In  general,  for  each  project  where  limited  or  significant  risk  is  identified,  Mizuho  BK’s 
internal process requires the Sustainable Development Office to work in partnership with its clients to 
assess  and  manage  these  environmental  and  social  risks  and  impacts.  Specifically  with  respect  to  the 
Mizuho Green Bond, projects categorized as having significant environmental risks (category A) are not 
financed through the proceeds of the Mizuho Green Bond.  
 

3.3        Management of Proceeds  
An amount equal to the net proceeds from the sale of a specific issue of green bond will be loaned to 
Mizuho BK and allocated by Mizuho BK to the financing of existing and new Eligible Green Projects. So 
long as that tranche of bonds remains outstanding, Mizuho FG will keep the list of all Eligible Green Project 
loans based on Mizuho BK’s internal loan data system and its output, and such records of that list will 
show an amount equal to the net proceeds from the issuance of those bonds as allocated to the assets 
that meet Mizuho FG’s internal investment criteria for Eligible Green Projects. Pending the allocation of 
the net proceeds of such bond to finance Eligible Green Projects, the net proceeds will be invested in 
overnight or otherwise short-term financial instruments. 
 
Payment of principal of and interest on the bond will be made from Mizuho FG’s general funds and will 
not be directly linked to the performance of any Eligible Green Projects.  
 
Mizuho FG will review and update the Eligible Green Projects to which the net proceeds of the bond are 
allocated on an annual basis. Any proceeds allocated to projects that have been sold, prepaid, amortized 
or otherwise become ineligible shall be reallocated to other Eligible Green Projects.  
 
3.4    Reporting  
Allocation Reporting 
During the term of any tranche or series of green bonds issued, Mizuho FG will provide and keep readily 
available, on a designated website, information on the allocation of the net proceeds of these bonds, to 
be updated at least annually.  
 
This  information  will  include:  (i)  the  allocation  of  the  net  proceeds  of  those  bonds  to  Eligible  Green 
Projects, brief description of  the Eligible Green Projects funded, current funded amounts, and funding 
dates and (ii) assertions by management that the net proceeds of that tranche or series of green bonds 
are  invested  either  in  qualifying  Eligible  Green  Projects  or  in  overnight  or  other  short-term  financial 
instruments.  The  updates  and  assertions  will  be  accompanied  by  a  report  from  an  independent 
accountant in respect of the independent accountant’s assurance of management’s assertion conducted 
in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. In general, Mizuho FG 
will report on a loan by loan basis, but for smaller amount loans, Mizuho FG may report on an aggregate 
basis. 
 
Impact Reporting 
Mizuho FG also intends to report, where feasible and when available, on the impact of Eligible Green 
Projects. In the case of Renewable Energy projects, Mizuho FG intends to report tons of CO2 emission 

 
 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

equivalent avoided.  All impact reporting (as and when feasible and available) will be disclosed on an 
aggregate basis, by eligible project category.  
 
4. SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION  
 
Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the Green Bond Framework   
Summary 
Overall, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Mizuho Green Bond Framework creates meaningful 
impact, is transparent, and aligns with the Green Bond Principles 2017 and Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines 
2017. Some considerations in Sustainalytics’ assessment are listed below: 

  Renewable Energy, Clean Transportation, and Pollution Prevention and Control are recognized by 
the 2017 Green Bond Principles and Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines 2017 as project categories 
with clear environmental impact.  

  Mizuho  FG’s  disclosure  and  processes  with  respect  to  management  of  proceeds  and  project 

selection process are in line with market practices  

  Mizuho FG has committed to reporting on the impact of Eligible Green Projects, where feasible 
and when available. In the case of Renewable Energy projects, Mizuho FG intends to report tons 
of CO2 emission equivalent avoided.  Reporting on quantitative impact indicators is in line with 
market practice, and Mizuho FG is following this market practice for Renewable Energy projects. 
Sustainalytics encourages the issuer to report on quantitative impact indicators for other eligible 
project categories, when such information is feasible and available. 
 

Alignment with Green Bond Principles 2017: Sustainalytics has determined that the Mizuho Green Bond 
Framework aligns to the four pillars of the Green Bond Principles 2017. For detailed information please 
refer to Appendix 2: Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form. 
 
Alignment with Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines  2017 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines 2017 are in line with the ICMA Green 
Bond Principles. In addition, Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines  2017 communicate what an issuer should do 
to issue a credible green bond, and also highlight what an issuer is recommended to do. Sustainalytics 
assessed the alignment between the Mizuho Green Bond Framework and the “should” items outlined in 
Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines  2017. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

ICMA Green Bond Principles and 

Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines, 20175 

1.  Use of Proceeds 

 

 

Alignment with GBP 
and with Japan’s 
Green Bond 
Guidelines 2017? 
Yes 

2.  Process for Project Evaluation and 

Yes 

Selection 

 

3.  Management of Proceeds 
 

Yes 

 
5 Green Bond Guidelines, 2017, Summary, Ministry of the Environment, Japan 
https://www.env.go.jp/en/policy/economy/gb/summary2017.pdf 
6 For detailed comments on alignment with ICMA GBP, please see Appendix 2. 

 
 

Sustainalytics’ comments on alignment with 
Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines 2017.6 

Eligible project categories (Renewable 
energy, Clean Transportation, and Pollution 
Prevention and Control) in the Mizuho Green 
Bond Framework are outlined with clear 
details and are recognized by Japan’s Green 
Bond Guidelines 2017 as providing clear 
environmental benefit. Mizuho FG also 
identifies social and environmental risk (any 
potential negative impact) associated with 
the eligible projects, and explains how they 
manage the risk through the application of 
the Equator Principles.  
Mizuho Green Bond Framework well 
describes information, required by Japan’s 
Green Bond Guidelines  2017 , on 1) 
“Environmental sustainability objectives” (In 
this report: Environmental Objectives), 2) 
“Criteria” for evaluating and selecting specific 
green projects (in this report: “Eligibility 
Criteria” and “Application of Eligibility Criteria 
in Project Selection”), and 3) “Process” to 
evaluate and select eligible green projects (In 
this report: “Process to Mitigate 
Environmental and Social Risks” and 
“Application of Eligibility Criteria in Project 
Selection”).  
Mizuho Green Bond Framework clarifies that 
Mizuho FG manages proceeds by 1) keeping 
the list of all Eligible Green Project loans 
based on Mizuho BK’sinternal loan data 
system, 2) recoding the amount of the 
allocated and unallocated proceeds (which 
will be invested in short-term financial 
instruments) to match to the total proceeds 
allocated by the green bond, and 3) making 
sure that the proceeds are tracked and 
managed, which are all followed by Japan’s 
Green Bond Guidelines 2017. Mizuho FG 
explains this to green bond investors.  

8 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

4.  Reporting 
 

Yes 

Mizuho Green Bond Framework clearly 
commits to disclose the five items annually, 
which are required by Japan’s Green Bond 
Guidelines  2017. List of projects that have 
been allocated, brief description of projects, 
amount allocated, environmental benefits, 
and information on unallocated proceeds. 

 
Section 2: Sustainability Performance of the Issuer 
 
Contribution of framework to Mizuho Financial Group’s sustainability strategy 
Mizuho’s environmental policy and the six pillars relating to its policy are described in the Mizuho Green 
Bond Framework. Sustainalytics ESG research assesses Mizuho FG as having a strong environmental policy 
as the policy (i) is approved by senior management or the board of directors, (ii) undertakes a commitment 
to consult with stakeholders, and (iii) takes a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, i.e. 
Mizuho recognizes climate change as a risk and takes voluntary and proactive approach to address climate 
change.  
 
As described in the Mizuho Green Bond Framework, Mizuho’s environmental policy is implemented in its 
three lines of business, including Environmental Finance. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that  Mizuho’s 
commitment  to  financing  environmentally  impactful  projects  is  strong,  as  demonstrated  through  the 
transparent reporting on its website. As of March 2017, Mizuho reports to have financed 604.1 billion JPY 
of environmentally impactful projects7. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that such transparent reporting is 
indicative of the priority Mizuho gives to environmental finance business activity.  
 
Overall,  the  Mizuho  Green  Bond  Framework  is  aligned  with  Mizuho  FG’s  environmental  policy,  and 
contributes to enhancing its Environmental Finance business activity.  
 
Well positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated with projects  
Mizuho FG is well positioned to manage key environmental and social risks associated with the Mizuho 
Green Bond projects. In general,  some key environmental and social risks associated with projects are 
utilization  of  viable  forest  or  food  products  as  biomass,  and  worker  safety  and  pollution  control  in 
construction  and  development  projects.  The  strength  of  Mizuho’s  risk  management  is  based  on  the 
following:  
 

1.  Mizuho FG stated to Sustainalytics its commitment that biomass project which use viable forest 
and food products as biomass for energy production will not be included as Eligible Green Project. 
Mizuho  FG  has  formalized  this  commitment  in  Mizuho  Green  Bond  Framework,  which 
Sustainalytics considers to be in line with market norms.  
 

2.  Mizuho  BK  demonstrates  that  its  Sustainable  Development  Office  reviews  and  conducts  the 
required  due  diligence  with  alignments  to  the  Equator  Principles  (EP).  The  EP  are  commonly 

 
7Environment-related Funding Provided by MHBK  
 https://www.mizuho-fg.com/investors/financial/annual/data1703/pdf/data1703_07.pdf 

9 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

accepted as a credible standard and widely used by financial institutions worldwide, including 
several multilateral development banks and export credit agencies. Lending as per the EP thus 
contributes  to  Mizuho  BK’s  robust  environmental  and  social  risk  mitigation  approach.  For 
Sustainalytics’ complete analysis on the EP please see Appendix 1.  

 

3.  As  a  part  of  the  assessment  and  categorization  process  of  the  EP,  Mizuho  BK,  though  its 

Sustainable Development Office, works with clients to manage any risks identified.  

 
Based on the above, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Mizuho has strong internal management system 
and is well prepared to mitigate any environmental risks. 
 
Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds  
All eligible project categories are recognized as impactful by the ICMA Green Bond Principles, and Japan’s 
Green Bond Guidelines  2017. Sustainalytics has highlighted below the impact of renewable energy, as 
Mizuho has indicated that renewable energy forms the bulk of their portfolio.  
 
Importance of renewable energy in Japan  
The energy self-sufficiency ratio of Japan is  low especially compared to OECD countries8, and the country 
imports about 84% of its energy9. The energy source that Japan heavily depended on before the Great 
East Japan Earthquake in 2011 was nuclear power, the development of which Japan had set as a national 
strategy  priority  since  1973 10.  However,  it  became  necessary  for  Japan  to  revise  its  energy  mix  and 
strategic  plan  after  the  country  experienced  an  accident  at  Fukushima  Daiichi  Nuclear  Plan  and 
subsequent shutdown of nuclear plants across Japan due to residents’ concerns. In the new strategic plan, 
the target of renewable energy including wind, solar, geothermal, biomass and hydro is set at 22-24% by 
2030 – a significant increase from 1.1% before the earthquake. Given this context, it is clear that there is 
a growing need to finance  the construction and operation renewable energy facilitates in Japan. As well, 
given the COP22 targets and commitments, and the need for a global transition to a low-carbon economy, 
there is also a clear need for promoting the development of renewable energy projects globally.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
8 Japan's Energy, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry Agency for Natural Resources and Energy, Japan 
http://www.enecho.meti.go.jp/en/category/brochures/pdf/japan_energy_2016.pdf 
9 Nuclear Power in Japan, World Nuclear Association 
http://www.world-nuclear.org/information-library/country-profiles/countries-g-n/japan-nuclear-power.aspx 
10 Nuclear Power in Japan, World Nuclear Association 
http://www.world-nuclear.org/information-library/country-profiles/countries-g-n/japan-nuclear-power.aspx 

10 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Alignment with/contribution to SDGs 
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were established in September 2015 and form an agenda for 
achieving sustainable development by the year 2030. The Mizuho Green Bond will advance the following 
SDG goals and targets:  
 
 

SDG 

SDG target 

Use of Proceeds 
Category 
Renewable Energy 

Clean Transportation 

7. Affordable and Clean 
Energy 
9.  Industry,  Innovation 
and Infrastructure 

7.2  By  2030,  increase  substantially  the  share  of 
renewable energy in the global energy mix 
9.1  Develop  quality,  reliable,  sustainable  and 
resilient  infrastructure,  including  regional  and 
trans-border infrastructure, to support economic 
3.9 By 2030, substantially reduce the number of 
deaths  and  illnesses  from  hazardous  chemicals 
and  air,  water  and 
soil  pollution  and 
contamination 

Pollution  prevention 
and control 

3.  Ensure  healthy  lives 
and promote well-being 
for all at all ages 

 
 
 
Conclusion  
The Mizuho Green Bond Framework  is transparent and provides  clarity regarding  the  use of proceeds 
which  focus  on  Renewable  Energy,  Clean  Transportation,  and  Pollution  Prevention  and  Control-  all  of 
which  are  included  in  the  GBP  as  an  eligible  green  project  categories.  Additionally,  Mizuho’s  project 
selection process is based on external standards such as the Equator Principles. This ensures that projects 
funded  through  bond  proceeds  have  minimal  or  limited  adverse  environmental  or  social  impacts. 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Mizuho Green Bond Framework aligns with the four pillars of the 
GBP 2017 and Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines  2017 , and is robust and credible.  

 

 
 

11 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

APPENDICES 
 
Appendix 1: Sustainalytics assessment of the strength of the Equator Principles 
Mizuho BK adheres to the Equator Principles (EP) to ensure that the projects it finances are developed 
and operate in accordance with international environmental and social standards. In Sustainalytics’ view, 
the  credibility  of  the  EP  as  a  risk  management  tool  for  large-scale  projects  derives  from  its  ability  to 
ensure:  
 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

A mandatory review of all projects with respect to their level of impact in a comprehensive 
range of environmental and social areas  
Principle 1 of the EP mandates a review and categorisation of all projects as having significant 
(Category a), limited (Category b), or minimal (Category c) environmental and social impact. 
Such Categorization is based on the environmental and social categorization  process of the 
International  Finance  Corporation.  For  each  project  where  limited  or  significant  risk  is 
identified, Mizuho BK’s internal process requires the Sustainble Development Office to work 
in  partnership  with  its  clients  to  assess  and  manage  environmental  and  social  risks  and 
impacts. 
 
Strong mitigation process for projects with significant or limited adverse environmental and 
social impact  
The  EP  (specifically  Principles  2-6)  also  require  all11
 Category  A  and  B  projects  to  conduct 
environmental  and  social  impact  assessments,  develop  and  maintain  environmental 
management  systems,  demonstrate  effective  stakeholder  engagement,  and  establish  a 
grievance  mechanism  to  address  concerns  around  the  project’s  environmental  and  social 
performance. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the above mentioned components combine 
to form a strong overall process for mitigating impacts throughout the life of project.  
 
Continuous independent assurance of a project’s environmental and social impact 
Principle  7  of  the  EP  require  that  Category  A  and  as  appropriate,  Category  B  projects  are 
subject to an independent review to assess the strength of the mitigation processes outlined 
above, and to assess compliance with the EP. Additionally, Principle 9 of the EP also requires 
the appointment of an independent environmental and social consultant to verify ongoing 
monitoring and reporting of project impacts. 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
11 Please note that for projects implemented in a set list of ‘Designated Countries,’ compliance with host country laws meets these mitigation 
requirements. This is because these countries are assessed as having robust environmental and social governance, legislation systems and 
institutional capacity designed to protect their people and the natural environment.  

12 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 
 

 

 

 
 

19 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics  is  an  independent  ESG  and  corporate  governance  research,  ratings  and  analysis  firm 
supporting  investors  around  the  world  with  the  development  and  implementation  of  responsible 
investment  strategies. With 13 offices globally, Sustainalytics partners with institutional investors who 
integrate  environmental,  social  and  governance  information  and  assessments  into  their  investment 
processes.  Today,  the  firm  has  more  than  300  staff  members,  including  170  analysts  with  varied 
multidisciplinary  expertise  of  more  than  40  sectors.  Through  the  IRRI  survey,  investors  selected 
Sustainalytics as the best independent responsible investment research firm for three consecutive years, 
2012 through 2014 and in 2015, Sustainalytics was named among the top three firms for both ESG and 
Corporate Governance research. The firm was also named the Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
Global Capital in 2015. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com  
 
Sustainalytics 
info@sustainalytics.com  
www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 

20 

