 

 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 MOSAIC SOLAR  

GREEN USE OF PROCEEDS 

SECURITIZED BOND 

 

MOSAIC SOLAR LOANS 2017-1 LLC 
FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND OPINION BY 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 

January 2017 

 

 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 

Remco Slim 

Analyst,  

Charlotte Peyraud 

Senior Advisor,  

Advisory Services (Amsterdam) 

Institutional Relations (New York) 

remco.slim@sustainalytics.com  

charlotte.peyraud@sustainalytics.com  

(+31) 20 205 00 03  

(+1) 646 518 0184 

 
 

 
 

Vikram Puppala  

Vikram Puppala  

© Sustainalytics 2017 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

1.  Preface 

2. 

Introduction 

3.  Framework overview 
3.1  Use of Proceeds 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
3.3  Management of Proceeds 
3.4  Reporting 

4. Sustainalytics’ Opinion 

Conclusion 

Appendices 

Appendix 1: Mosaic’s Installer Approval Policies and Procedures 
Appendix 2: Mosaic’s Authorized Vendor List 
Appendix 3: Impact Statistics for Mosaic Solar Loans 2017-1 LLC 
Appendix 4: Documents Reviewed 
Appendix 5: Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

1 

3 

3 

5 
5 
5 
6 
6 

7 
7 

8 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 

18 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

1. PREFACE 
Solar Mosaic, Inc. (“Mosaic”) will issue a Green Use of Proceeds Securitized Bond.1 For that purpose, a series of 
notes (the “Notes”) will be issued under the Mosaic’s Solar Loan Program. The issuance will consist of one or 
more  classes  of  Solar  Loan  backed  notes  and  Residual  Certificates  which  are  issued  through  a  wholly  owned 
subsidiary named ‘Mosaic Solar Loans 2017-1 LLC’ (“the Issuer”). The Notes are secured by a pool of (Solar) Loans 
incurred by home owners to finance their purchase and installation of a solar energy system on their residence. 
These  loans  are  secured  by  the  related  solar  energy  system.  Mosaic  retained  Sustainalytics  to  review  the 
structure of the issuance and to provide an opinion on the alignment of the Notes with the Green Bond Principles 
2016 (“GBP”) administered by the International Capital Market Association (“ICMA”).  
 
Sustainalytics engaged with members of Mosaic’s management team to understand the sustainability impact of 
the issuance, reviewed the deal documentation and the allocation of the proceeds for the issuance of the Notes. 
Sustainalytics  also  reviewed  the  public  and  internal  deal  documentation  from  Solar  Mosaic,  Inc.  specifically 
relevant to the Notes. This document contains two sections: Framework Overview – summary of the Solar Mosaic 
Green Use of Proceeds Securitized Bond framework; and Sustainalytics’ Opinion – an opinion on Solar Mosaic’s 
issuance. 
  
2. INTRODUCTION 
Overview 
Mosaic operates a financial services platform that provides homeowners with loans used to finance the purchase 
and  installation  of  solar  energy  systems  on  their  home  through  a  network  of  third  party  contractors.  The 
organization’s current business  strategy is to offer loan products that appeal to  installers who offer Mosaic’s 
loans to their customers at point of sale. Mosaic relies on a network of U.S. based installers to offer Mosaic’s 
loans to homeowners as one option to fund the purchase of their solar energy system. 
 
Mosaic’s Solar Loans 
Mosaic originates residential Solar Loans that enable customers to afford to purchase and own their own solar 
energy system.  Mosaic’s Solar Loan program is specifically designed for the residential solar market. The Mosaic 
Solar Loans enables “approved installers” (see Appendix 1 and 2) to offer potential means of financing for the 
homeowner’s  purchase  and  installation  of  a  solar  energy  system.  The  installer  surveys  the  home  for  solar 
resource quality, builds a preliminary system design, and models the solar energy expected for a full year.  Based 
on  the  resulting  model,  the  installer  can  describe  the  solar  energy  system  specifications  and  energy  savings 
potential offered to the customer by purchasing the solar energy system and various payment options available 
to the customers to fund the purchase (cash purchase, lease/power purchase agreements or loan financing).   
 
Mosaic disburses the loan proceeds directly to the installer using a milestone schedule that corresponds to the 
solar energy system’s construction phases, with final disbursements made when the applicable utility serving the 
homeowner grants permission to operate, signifying that the solar energy system is fully ready to generate and 
transmit energy both to the home and the utility grid.  
 

 
1 A type of Green Bonds as described in the Green Bond Principles, 2016; http://www.icmagroup.org/assets/documents/Regulatory/Green-
Bonds/GBP-2016-Final-16-June-2016.pdf  

3 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Several policies at the federal, state, and local levels have helped to spur adoption of solar energy in the United 
States. The bulk of support has come from the federal solar tax credit (“ITC”) that is available to taxpayers making 
investments in new solar energy systems. The ITC generally provides an incentive for such investments by giving 
taxpayers a credit of up to 30% of the acquisition cost for new solar energy systems placed in service before 
specified deadlines. Mosaic’s customers may claim a credit against their federal income taxes so long as their 
Solar Energy System is placed in service before expiration of the ITC. 
 
Securitization of Solar Loans  
The issuance of the Notes will primarily be secured by a pool of loans incurred by home owners to finance their 
purchase and installation of a solar energy system on their residence. These loans are secured by the related 
solar energy system. Mosaic has originated the pool of Solar Loans and will (on behalf of the Issuer as the servicer 
of the Solar Loan pool), among other things, bill and collect payments in respect of the Solar Loans, enforce the 
Solar Loans and monitor the performance of the Solar Loans.  
 
Financed projects consist solely of residential Solar Loans that enable customers to afford to purchase, install 
and  own  their  own  solar  energy  systems.  The  Solar  Loans  were  originated  by  Mosaic  pursuant  to  referral 
agreements with Installers operating in Mosaic’s network that sell solar energy systems and related items and 
services to customers that have been approved by Mosaic for financing. Both the Installers and the equipment 
components  used  in  the  Solar  Energy  Systems  have  been  approved  by  Mosaic  pursuant  to  its  policies  and 
procedures. 
 
Solar Loan Backed Notes 
Mosaic disclosed that total proceeds to be issued by the Notes are USD 138,950,000. The Notes are secured by 
a pool of Solar Loans. The transaction benefits from credit enhancement in the form of overcollateralization, 
yield  supplement  overcollateralization  and  a 
from 
overcollateralization in the form of principal balance of Solar Loans that exceeds the principal balance of  the 
issuance.  
 
The proceeds from the issuance of the Notes will be used by the Issuer to acquire the Solar Loans and to pay 
certain expenses incurred in connection with the issuance of the Notes and the Residual Certificates.2  The Notes 
will be secured by all of the Solar Loans acquired by the Issuer, and Mosaic has disclosed that the principal balance 
of the Solar Loans on the statistical cutoff date will be approximately USD 177,900,929.3  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

reserve.  The  Notes  are  benefiting 

liquidity 

 
2 The Residual Certificates represent ownership of 100% of the residual economic interest in Mosaic Solar Loans 2017-1 LLC.   
3 See the Preliminary Offering Memorandum for further information on the statistical characteristics of the Solar Loans. 

4 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

3. FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 
Mosaic’s issuance of the Notes uses a framework that is aligned with the four key pillars of the Green Bond 
Principles (“GBP”): 

  Use of Proceeds 
  Selection Process 
  Management of Proceeds 
  Reporting 

 
 
3.1   Use of Proceeds 
The proceeds of the Notes will be allocated to Solar Loans that finance solar energy systems that meet the 
following eligibility criteria. 
 
3.1.1  Eligibility Criteria 
To be eligible to be funded by the proceeds, the projects funded must meet the following criteria: 

a.  Fall within selected renewable and alternative energy product categories 

i.  Solar Panel Modules 
ii.  Solar inverters 
iii.  Services related to the installation of products under i. and ii. 

Installed by Mosaic approved installer  

b. 
c.  Use Mosaic approved equipment. 

 

Mosaic determines the eligibility of the projects financed based on “Installer Approval policies” and “Equipment 
qualification  criteria”.  Eligible  projects  must  be  undertaken  with  Mosaic’s  “Approved  Installers”  and  use 
equipment from the “Approved Vendor List” (as outlined in Appendix 1 and 2).  

 

 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
All  projects  that  meet  the  eligibility  criteria  as  described  above  are  selected  by  Mosaic.  Mosaic  developed 
detailed policies and procedures for evaluating and approving prospective customers seeking to obtain a Solar 
Loan. Mosaic uses an internal review process. Mosaic’s Credit Committee assesses relevant criteria that allows 
Mosaic  to  make  an  educated  informed  decision  on  whether  to  approve  an  installer.  All  Solar  Loans  that  are 
referred  to  Mosaic  by  its  “Approved  Installers”  are  eligible  to  be  funded  if  the  homeowner  meets  Mosaic’s 
underwriting criteria.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

   Reporting  

3.3        Management of Proceeds  
The proceeds of the Notes are immediately directed to an underlying trust that is being used to acquire and hold 
the Solar Loans on behalf of the Issuer and the holders of its Notes and residual Certificates. The Solar Loans are 
currently owned by Mosaic or its warehouse financing subsidiaries prior to their sale to the Issuer. All Solar Loans 
will be assigned to the underlying trust upon the issuance of the Notes resulting in full allocation of the proceeds 
to the Solar Loans. Due to the required overcollateralization, the Notes are secured by a pool of Solar Loans in 
an amount equal to or greater than the amount of the Notes issuance at all times. 
 
 
3.4 
 
Allocation Reporting 
As  all  of  the  initial  proceeds  will  be  immediately  allocated  to  Solar  Loans,  verification  on  allocation  of  the 
proceeds will be disclosed all at once at issuance of the Notes in the offering memorandum. 
 
Impact Reporting 
Mosaic utilizes a proprietary calculation model which estimates the renewable energy generating capacity for all 
installed Solar Energy Systems that are financed through its Solar Loan program.  
 
Mosaic reports on assumed impact in the following area: 
 
Renewable Energy Generation  

1.  Methodology 

Total capacity of the Solar Energy Systems in an aggregated manner in Megawatts. 
 

2.  Specific Impact Metrics 
  Total  capacity of  Solar  Energy  Systems  financed  by  Solar Loans Backing  the  Notes  in Megawatts  (DC, 

direct current).  

  Total Assumed Renewable Energy Produced by such Solar Energy Systems (during assumed useful life) in 

Megawatt hours. 

 
See Appendix 3 for figures on the assumed environmental impacts from the projects funded by the Solar Loans 
underlying the Notes. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

6 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

4. SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
Mosaic’s issuance of Notes supports investments in residential renewable energy projects by providing financing 
solutions  to  homeowners  with  loans  financing  residential  solar  energy  installations.  Mosaic  allocates  the 
proceeds  from  the  Notes  to  Solar  Loans,  which  are  backed  by  the  projects  and  products  managed  through 
Mosaic’s  Solar  Loan  program.  Mosaic  uses  an  overcollateralization  strategy  to  secure  the  Notes  and  thereby 
ensures that all proceeds are matched by a portfolio of Solar Loans that meet the eligibility criteria resulting in a 
full  allocation  upon  issuance.  The  issuance  of  the  Notes  will  enable  Mosaic  to  repay  a  portion  of  its  current 
outstanding warehouse funding, which should enable Mosaic fund new Solar Loans. 
 
Mosaic is currently a pure-play solar energy system financier and its Solar Loans offer an effective way to promote 
the uptake of renewable energy-generating products in the United States. Mosaic incentivizes home owners to 
install solar systems and products by offering loans to homeowners. Given the alignment of Mosaic’s issuance 
with  its  overall  strategy  and  the  fact  that  the  company  is  not  implicated  in  severe  environmental,  social  or 
governance controversies, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Mosaic is well positioned to issue green bonds.  
 
Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  Mosaic  implements  a  rigorous  process  to  ensure  that  the  Solar  Loans 
underlying the notes are disbursed directly to the installers that meet Mosaic’s criteria. Furthermore, the Solar 
Loans are not permitted to be used for any purpose other than the purchase and installation of a Solar Energy 
System or related items. Financed projects must be undertaken by Mosaic’s “Approved Installers” and only use 
equipment on Mosaic’s “approved equipment list”. In order to select installers, Mosaic uses an internal review 
process. Mosaic’s Credit Committee assesses relevant criteria that allows Mosaic to make an informed decision 
on  whether  to  approve  an  installer.  This  assessment  includes,  among  others,  an  evaluation  of  an  installer’s 
creditworthiness and solvency, and experience building residential solar systems.  
 
Impact of Use of Proceeds 
The issuance of Notes backed by solar loans supports investments in residential renewable energy projects with 
positive environmental impacts. Mosaic’s asset-backed securitization of rooftop Solar Loans fits within the four 
recognized types of Green Bonds as described in the Green Bond Principles, 2016. Furthermore, Mosaic reports 
on the aggregated renewable energy generating capacity of the solar energy systems it has funded and the total 
assumed renewable energy produced during the lifetime of the projects. These metrics provide investors insights 
on the scale of the impact of the solar systems funded by the Notes. 
 
Alignment with Green Bond Principles 2016: Sustainalytics has determined that the issuance aligns with the four 
pillars of the Green Bond Principles 2016. For detailed information please refer to the Green Bond/Green Bond 
Programme External Review Form in the Appendix. 
 
Conclusion 
Through the issuance of the Notes, Mosaic supports investments in residential renewable energy projects by 
providing financing to homeowners with loans that will directly enable the sale and installation of residential 
solar energy systems. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the issuance is aligned with current market standards 
and norms, including the four pillars of the Green Bond Principles 2016. The use of proceeds, project selection, 
management of proceeds, and reporting are robust and credible. The criteria that are used for the  Notes are 
sound and the selection processes are diligent.  
 

 
 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

APPENDICES 
Appendix 1: Mosaic’s Installer Approval Policies and Procedures 

Mosaic permits an Installer to access its advanced technology financing platform only after such Installer has been 
underwritten, evaluated and approved by Mosaic’s Credit Committee and designated as an Approved Installer.  Any Installer 
who seeks to become an Approved Installer must initially provide Mosaic with the following information (collectively, the 
“Application  Documents”):  evidence  of  a  valid,  active  state  contractor’s  license,  a  completed  Installer  application  form 
(“Installer  Application”)  and  a  copy  of  such  Installer’s  solar  installation  agreement  and  solar  warranty  documentation 
(“Installer Agreements”).   

The Installer Application requires an Installer to provide detailed information regarding, among other things: annual 
sales volume, annual loan volume, geographic sales area, experience (number of years in business and Solar Energy Systems 
installed  to  date),  number  of  employees,  including  those  certified  by  the  North  American  Board  of  Certified  Energy 
Practitioners and those certified as licensed professional engineers, number of complaints registered with the applicable State 
licensing  board  for  contractors,  the  amount  and  type  of  insurance  coverage  maintained,  documentation  regarding  Installer 
practices, including workmanship warranty, monitoring services, types of modules, inverters and other components offered, 
and forms of sale and installation agreements.              

Upon  receipt  of  an  Installer’s  Application  Documents,  Mosaic’s  staff  reviews  (1)  the  Installer  Application  for 
completeness, and to the extent necessary prepares an internal write up providing context for any criteria that are not in the 
generally acceptable range, and (2) the Installer Agreements for conformity to general standards in the solar industry and with 
regulatory  requirements,  in  each  case  consulting  legal  counsel  as  necessary.    A  summary  of  the  foregoing  review  is  then 
provided to Mosaic’s Credit Committee, which reviews the summary and other information it may request and will then  either 
approve such Installer, request additional information on the Installer or reject the Installer application. 

Mosaic requires that representatives for each  Approved Installer receive online compliance training on consumer 

 

lending compliance matters.   
 
 
Performance by Approved Installers is monitored by Mosaic on an ongoing basis and an Installer may be removed 
as an Approved Installer by Mosaic’s management or by the Credit Committee at any time, based on a breach of the Installer’s 
agreement  with  Mosaic.  Through  December  31,  2016,  Mosaic  has  terminated  approximately  14  previously  Approved 
Installers for compliance or financial cause. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Appendix 2: Mosaic’s Authorized Vendor List 

Mosaic’s Equipment Vendor Approval Policies and Procedures 

Approved Installers are required to use solar panels and inverters manufactured by vendors specified on Mosaic’s 
“Authorized Vendor List.”  The Authorized Vendor List is a list of equipment providers that manufacture or distribute solar 
panels and/or inverters used in the Solar Energy Systems financed by Mosaic.  Such vendors and their equipment must satisfy 
criteria adopted from time to time by Mosaic.  Mosaic’s current criteria have been adopted by Mosaic’s Credit Committee 
based on its review of (1) information supplied by the vendors, (2) third party reports (including independent engineer reports), 
(3) other analysis regarding performance of the Solar Energy System components, and (4) other relevant criteria. 

Any  solar  panel  or  inverter  equipment  manufacturer  (“Vendor”)  wishing  to  be  considered  for  inclusion  on  the 
Authorized Vendor List must submit responses to a list of questions and selection criteria developed by Mosaic that includes, 
among  other  things  (1)  an  overview  of  the  Vendor  and  such  Vendor’s  Experian  credit  score,  (2)  detailed  specifications 
regarding the product, including the product  warranty to be provided, (3) key  materials  used in the panels or inverters, as 
applicable, and related risks associated with such materials, (4) performance and reliability data, (5) warranty claim history 
and  processes,  (6)  ISO  certifications,  (7)  installation  history,  (8)  product  support,  (9)  technology  review  and  (10)  other 
standard acceptance criteria. 

 
Mosaic’s staff  reviews the Vendor’s responses in order to confirm whether the Vendor information is complete and 
the product meets Mosaic’s approval standards or, if not, whether any extraordinary circumstances exist which nonetheless 
justify  approval  of  the  Vendor,  and  presents  the  results  of  their  review  to  the  Credit  Committee  for  approval.    Mosaic’s 
Authorized Vendor List currently includes the following: 

Approved Solar Panel Modules: 

 

AU Optronics                                      Axitec                                    
Centro Solar America 
CSUN                                     
ET Solar Industry                                First Solar                             
Hyundai                                               JA Solar                                 
Kyocera                                               LG                                           
Mage Solar USA                                 Mitsubishi Electric           
  
Phono Solar                                        RECSolar ASA                        
Samsung                                              Sanyo                                     
Sharp                                                    Silfab                                      
Suniva                                                  SunPower                              
Trina Solar                                           UpSolar                                  
Yingli Green Energy 
 

Canadian Solar                    
Dow Chemical                    
Hanwha                                
Jinko 
Light Way Green New Energy                
Motech                                 
ReneSola                             
Silevo (Solar City) 
SolarWorld                          
Sunpreme                            
WINAICO                            

Approved Inverters: 

 APSystems                            
ABB                                                    
Enphase                                                Fronius                                   
PV Powered                                
SolarEdge Technologies      
Solectria Renewable                         Solis (Ginlong)                      

Delta                                     
PowerOne                            
SMA                                     
SunPower 

 
  
 
 
 

 
 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

 
 
Appendix 3: Impact Statistics for Mosaic Solar Loans 2017-1 LLC 
 
Table 1: Impact Statistics Mosaic Solar Loans 2017-1 LLC 
 

Environmental Impact 

Impact Metrics 

Impact Figures 

Total capacity of solar energy 
systems financed by solar loans 
backing the notes 

Total assumed renewable energy 
produced by solar energy systems 
(during assumed 30 years of useful 
life) 

Megawatts (DC) 

approximately 43 MW 

Megawatt hours 

approximately 1,850,000 MWh 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

10 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Appendix 4: Documents Reviewed 
 
Sustainalytics reviewed the following documents for the purposes of writing this report: 
 

 
1 
2 
3 

Document Name 
Mosaic Solar Loans 2017 1 LLC - Preliminary Offering Memorandum 
Asset Pool (Loan Tape) Mosaic Solar Loans 2017 1 LLC 
Mosaic Installer and Equipment Approval Policy 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

11 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted or 
published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not accept any 
form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from the use of this 
Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that the 
information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or portfolios. 
Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of the economic 
performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective allocation of the funds’ use 
of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation and 
monitoring. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

17 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics is the largest independent provider of sustainability 
research, analysis, and services to investors. We serve over 250 
institutional investors which include some of the world's largest asset 
owners and asset managers. Through over 20 years of experience 
serving the responsible investment (RI) market, we have gained a 
reputation for providing high-quality ESG research solutions and 
excellent client service. 

Sustainalytics is headed by seasoned professionals in the field of 
business, finance, and sustainability, with a wealth of experience in the 
Responsible Investment area. After more than 20 years of local 
experience and expertise in the Responsible Investment (RI) market 
Sustainalytics has developed a comprehensive understanding of trends 
and best practices and a solid process to assist organisations in 
integrating ESG considerations into their policies and strategies. We 
have worked with some of the world’s financial institutions including 
pension plans, investment managers and banks providing customised 
support to help them achieve their RI objectives. Clients include ABN 
AMRO, APG, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank, ING Bank, Lombard 
Odier, Lloyds Bank, Triodos Bank, UBS and over 250 other financial 
institutions and organisations. 

Sustainalytics now has a staff of 250 employees globally, including over 
120 analysts, with operations in Amsterdam, Boston, Bucharest, 
Frankfurt, New York, Paris, London, Singapore, Sydney, Timisoara, and 
Toronto, and representation in Brussels and Washington DC. 

In 2015, Sustainalytics was named the Best 
SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
GlobalCapital. In December 2014, for the 
third year in a row, Sustainalytics was 
named best sustainable and responsible 
investment research firm in the 
Independent Research in Responsible 
Investment (IRRI) Survey, conducted by 
Thomson Reuters and SRI-CONNECT.  

 
 

18 

