 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

NACIONAL FINANCIERA 

S.N.C. 

SOCIAL BOND 

 

 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND PARTY 

OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

July 5, 2017 

Ankita Shukla (Toronto) 
Senior Advisor, Advisory Services 
ankita.shukla@sustainalytics.com  
(+1) 416 861 0403 

Charlotte Peyraud (New York)  
Senior Advisor, Institutional Relations 
charlotte.peyraud@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 646 518 0184 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

1. 

Introduction 

2.  Overview of Issuer 

3.  Framework Overview 

3.1  Use of Proceeds 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
3.3  Management of Proceeds 
3.4  Reporting 
3.5  Compliance Review 

4.  Sustainalytics’ Opinion 

Conclusion 

APPENDIX 1 

APPENDIX 2 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

3 

3 

4 
4 
7 
8 
9 
9 

10 
14 

16 

17 

23 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

1. INTRODUCTION 
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (“NAFIN”), a Mexican development bank, intends to issue a series of Social 
Bonds and has engaged Sustainalytics to provide a second party opinion on its Social Bond Framework. 
Sustainalytics’ opinion  is based on an assessment of the Social Bond Framework’s alignment with the 
transparency  and  reporting  requirements  of  the  Social  Bond  Principles  2017  (SBP)1  as  well  as  assess 
NAFIN’s overall sustainability performance and its alignment with the framework. 
 
To come to this opinion, Sustainalytics reviewed several public and internal documents provided by NAFIN 
and held conversations with members from NAFIN’s management teams. These conversations were held 
to  understand  NAFIN’s  initiatives,  and  the  use  of  proceeds,  management  of  proceeds  and  reporting 
aspects of the Social Bonds to be issued. This document contains two sections: Framework Overview – 
summary  of  the  NAFIN’s  Social  Bond  Framework;  and  Sustainalytics’  Opinion  –  an  opinion  of  the 
framework.   
   
  
2. OVERVIEW OF ISSUER 
NAFIN was created in 1934 for the purpose of helping to finance important socio-economic development 
within  the  country.  In  the  years  that  followed  the  opening  of  the  Mexican  economy,  there  was  an 
increased challenge of modernization and structural change in the country’s industrial sector, therefore 
NAFIN has worked to boost the competitiveness of the country’s enterprises. It is also key to promoting 
the Mexican government’s policies for expanding economic and social development in the country with 
the primary objective of generating jobs and regional growth by strengthening and modernizing micro, 
small and medium enterprises (MSMEs).  
 
According  to  its  Institutional  Program,  the  institutional  mission  of  NAFIN  is-  "To  contribute  to  the 
economic development of the country by facilitating the access of MSMEs, entrepreneurs and priority 
investment projects to financing and other business development services, as well as contribute to the 
formation of financial markets and act as fiduciary and financial agent of the Federal Government, which 
allows to boost innovation, improve productivity, competitiveness."2 
 
As  one  of  the  Mexican  development  banks,  all  NAFIN  Programmes  are  aligned  with  the  objectives, 
strategies and lines of action defined in the National Development Plan 2013-20183. The Development 
Plan establishes  the  following five national goals:  (1) a Mexico in Peace, (2) an Inclusive Mexico, (3) a 
Mexico with Quality Education, (4) a Prosperous Mexico, (5) a Mexico with Global Responsibility. 
 
NAFIN is issuing Social Bonds in line with its mandate to promote financial inclusion in Mexico. 

 

1 The Social Bond Principles are voluntary process guidelines that recommend transparency and disclosure and promote integrity in the 

development of the Social Bond market. They provide issuers guidance on the key components involved in launching a credible Social Bond 
and aid investors by ensuring availability of information necessary to evaluate the positive impact of their Social Bond investments. 

2 http://www.nafin.com/portalnf/content/sobre-nafinsa/nuestra-estrategia/nuestra-estrategia.html  
 

3 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

3. FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 
This section presents NAFIN’s Social Bond Framework, which follows the four key pillars of the Social Bond 
Principles (SBP): the use of proceeds, process for programme selection and evaluation, management of 
proceeds, and reporting. 
 
 
3.1   Use of Proceeds 
The net proceeds of each Social Bond issued by NAFIN will be allocated to direct and indirect (through 
NAFIN’s network of financial intermediaries) lending via existing and future NAFIN programmes. NAFIN’s 
programmes will fall under one or more of the following Social Objectives: 
 

1.  Enhancing access to essential services including education, vocational training, and financing 

and financial services for low-income and underserved populations including young 
entrepreneurs and students; 
 

2.  Employment generation through microfinance and financing targeted at micro, small and 

medium enterprises (MSMEs); 
 

3.  Socio-economic advancement and empowerment of women by providing credit to women 

entrepreneurs who want to expand their businesses; 
 

4.  Enhancing cost-savings through resource efficiency (e.g. energy, water) for low-income 

households by financing the installation of high-efficiency products and technologies; 
 

5.  Supporting the economic recovery of individuals and micro, small and medium enterprises 

(MSMEs) impacted by natural disasters. 

 
NAFIN’s existing eligible programmes may include: 
 

Table 1 
Social Objectives 
Enhancing access to 
essential services including 
training, and financing and 
financial services for low-
income and underserved 
populations including 
young entrepreneurs and 
students 
 

 
 

Programme Name 
Credit for Young 
People  
(Crédito Joven) 

Eligibility Criteria 
Provides credit to young entrepreneurs opening a business / growing 
their current business 
 
In order to be eligible for credit, qualifying beneficiaries must be: 

a.  young entrepreneurs with a business between the ages of 

18 and 35; 

b.  young entrepreneurs with new enterprises that have 

completed an incubation process with the National 
Institute for Entrepreneurs (INADEM); 

c.  young entrepreneurs with ongoing businesses that have 

at least one year of seniority; 

d.  young entrepreneurs with an adequate credit history 
(though it is no mandatory to have previous records); 

4 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Credit for 
Microbusinesses4 

Employment generation 
through microfinance and 
financing targeted at 
micro, small and medium 
enterprises (MSMEs) 
 

Socio-economic 
advancement and 
empowerment of women 
by providing credit to 
women entrepreneurs 
who want to expand their 
business 

Support for Women 
Entrepreneurs 
(Apoyo a Mujeres 
Empresarias) 
 

e.  young entrepreneurs with a guarantor. 

 
http://www.nafin.com/portalnf/content/productos-y-servicios/programas-
empresariales/credito_joven.html 

Microcredit in Mexico as per the Official Gazette of the Federation is 
defined as credit granted to natural persons whose resources are 
destined to finance activities of production or sale of goods or services, 
in which the main source of payment is the income obtained by said 
activities and whose amounts and terms will be under one of the 
following modalities: 

(i) 

Individual: when the credit is granted to a single individual and 
having a maximum limit with the equivalent amount in local 
currency of UDI 30,0005 (approximately MXN 172,228 or USD 
9,473) and a maximum term of three years; or 

(ii)  Group: when credit is given to groups of individuals who 

endorse constitute debts or debtors jointly and severally with 
each other and having a maximum limit of the equivalent 
amount in local currency of UDI 11,500 (approximately MXN 
66,020 or USD 3,631) for each member of the group and a 
maximum term of one year. 

 
In order to be eligible for microcredit, qualifying beneficiaries must be: 

a.  microbusinesses  having  activities  in  the  commercial, 

service or industrial sector;  

b.  beneficiaries complying with the specific credit policies of 

each financial intermediary.  

Provides  credit  to  women  entrepreneurs  who  want  to  expand  their 
businesses. 

In order to be eligible for credit, qualifying beneficiaries are women who: 

a.  are 18 years of age; 
b.  have a micro, small or medium-sized company, or natural person 
with a legally constituted business activity and have at least two 
years  of  seniority;  or,  in  the  case  of  women  who  operate 
businesses  under  the  Tax  Incorporation  Regime,  have  at  least 
one year of seniority 

c.  have 51% ownership stake in the company; 
d.  have an adequate credit history and up-to-date legal and 

financial information; 

e.  have collateral or guarantor for loans exceeding MXN 500,000.  

 

 
4 Microbusiness - the National Institute of Statistics defines a microbusiness as one that employs up to 10 workers in commerce, services, 

transportation and construction; and up to 15 workers in manufacturing. 

5 UDI - The Mexican unidad de inversión (ISO 4217 code MXV) is an index unit of funds used in Mexico. It can be traded in many currency 

markets because its value changes with respect to currencies. Unlike currencies, it is designed to retain its purchasing power and not be 
subject to inflation. The Mexican credit system uses the UDI rather than the peso because of its stability. 

5 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Enhancing cost-savings 
through resource 
efficiency (e.g. energy, 
water) for low-income 
households by financing 
installation of high-
efficiency products and 
technologies 

Sustainable 
Improvement in 
Existing Dwelling 
Programme with 
Mexico’s National 
Housing 
Commission 
(Comisión Nacional 
de Vivienda, 
CONAVI) and the 
Mexican Energy 
Efficiency Trust 
(FIDE) 
 

Supporting the economic 
recovery of individuals and 
micro, small and medium 
enterprises (MSMEs) 
impacted by natural 
disasters 

Natural Disaster and 
Economic Recovery 
Support Programme 
(Emergente de 
Apoyo en Desastres 
Naturales y 
Reactivación 
Económica) 

http://www.nafin.com/portalnf/content/productos-y-servicios/programas-
empresariales/empresarias.html 
Credit for residential energy efficiency projects/eco-solutions.  
 
In order to be eligible for credit, qualifying beneficiaries are households 
that: 

a.  earn  a  monthly  income  of  up  to  five  current  minimum 

wages6; 

b.  own existing dwelling; 
c. 

contribute at least 5% of the project amount in advance 
payment; 

d.  have an adequate credit history; 
e.  have a guarantor.  

 
Qualifying beneficiaries may use credit toward the following: 

1.  Air conditioning equipment; 
2.  Thermal insulation; 
3.  Photovoltaic / solar systems; 
4.  Solar heaters; 
5.  Thermal windows; 
6.  Gas heaters (with or without solar water heater); 
7.  Solar window film; 
8.  Energy efficient lighting; 
9.  Waterproofing; 
10.  Reflective finishing on ceilings and walls; 
11.  Ceiling fans. 

 
http://www.gob.mx/conavi/articulos/buscas-reducir-tus-gastos-de-agua-luz-y-gas-
conavi-te-apoya?idiom=es  
Financing  to  micro,  small  and  medium  enterprises  (MSMEs),  or 
individuals with a business, for their recovery after having been affected 
by  physical  and  economic  damages  due  to  a  natural  disaster  or  a 
circumstantial event. 
 
In order to be eligible for credit, qualifying beneficiaries are MSMEs, or 
individuals with a business, that: 

a.  are  registered  by  the  state  government  and/or  the 

Ministry of Economy; 

b.  demonstrate physical and/or economic damage. 

 
http://www.nafin.com/portalnf/content/productos-y-servicios/programas-
empresariales/programa-emergente.html 

 
NAFIN adheres to the current definition of MSMEs as defined by the Mexican Government, as stated in 
Appendix 1. 

 
6 The general minimum wage effective as of January 1, 2017 is MXN 80.04 per day (USD 4.40). Thus, five monthly minimum wages are 

equivalent to approximately MXN 12,166.08 (USD 669.19). 

6 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

 
Exclusionary Criteria 
NAFIN  applies  the  following  exclusionary  criteria  to  all  its  programmes,  as  per  its  credit  policies. 
Accordingly, NAFIN commits itself to not knowingly be involved in financing any of the following projects 
or activities: 

  Consumer credit; 
  Activities  of  agriculture,  livestock,  hunting,  forestry  and  fishing,  except  those  projects  that 

incorporate transformation activities carried out in the productive unit itself; 

  Manufacture of firearms and cartridges; 
  Projects that generate negative effects on the environment; 
  Financing  companies  in  the  sectors  of  commerce  or  services  related  to  the  renovation  or 

establishments of bars and canteens not associated with restaurants; 

  Applicants who present a "prevention code" identified by the Credit Bureau or whose guarantors, 

guarantors or joint sponsors present such codes; 

  Applicants who are in technical bankruptcy, understood as the loss of two-thirds of their capital 

stock. 

 

3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 

Social Objective of Issuer  
In  support  of  NAFIN’s  Mission,  NAFIN’s  objectives  include  increasing  access  to  financing  as  well  as 
improving  productivity.  In  line  with  this  objective,  NAFIN  has  social  lending  programmes  that  aim  to 
increase access to finance to underserved populations like women, youth, entrepreneurs, etc.  Such social 
lending programmes and their associated targeted populations are described in Table 1 in section 3.1. 
 
Application of Social Objectives in Programme Selection 
The  NAFIN  Treasury  team  will  work  with  its  Microcredit  Division  team  and  its  network  of  financial 
intermediaries to select existing and future NAFIN programmes that align with (i) NAFIN’s Mandate and  
(ii) NAFIN’s Social Objectives outlined above in Section 3.1. 
 
NAFIN has developed a two-step approach to evaluating programmes for eligibility against NAFIN’s Social 
Objectives: 

1.  Relevant Business Units are responsible for screening and selection of programmes to ensure that 

programmes will create positive social impact for targeted disadvantaged populations; 

2.  NAFIN’s Treasury team oversees the Social Bond issuances and is responsible for the approval of 
the programmes to be admitted for the Use of Proceeds in accordance with the Social Objectives. 
 

Risk Mitigation 
NAFIN selects financial intermediaries on the basis of: verification of portfolio management capacities, 
quarterly  credit  risk  rating  and  periodic  supervision  at  least  annually.  Furthermore,  NAFIN  promotes 
responsible lending practices  by requiring all intermediaries to regularly  report loans disbursed to  the 

 
 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

credit  bureau  in  order  to  pre-empt  and  mitigate  the  risk  of  over-indebtedness  among  microfinance 
borrowers. 
 
 

3.3        Management of Proceeds 
Net proceeds from the bond will be allocated prior to the bond maturity date within NAFIN’s treasury 
liquidity portfolio and shall be used to fund, in whole or in part, the investments in Eligible Programmes 
that meet the Social Objectives stated in Section 3.1. Pending such disbursements, the net proceeds from 
the bond may be used for overnight investments and lending purposes, as well as in cash or other liquid 
marketable instruments. 
 
While any NAFIN Social Bond is outstanding, the NAFIN’s Treasury team will maintain internal records to 
show the allocation of the net proceeds to lending in alignment with the NAFIN Social Bond Framework. 
These records will be regularly updated until full allocation of the net proceeds. 
 
Payment of principal and interest on NAFIN Social Bonds will be made from NAFIN’s general funds and 
will not be directly linked to the performance of any loans. 
 
Tracking 
To track the compliance of borrowers, NAFIN has an internal area of supervision. Overall data on social 
programmes  is  also  tracked  and  disclosed,  including  the  type  of  programme,  the  amount  of  credit  or 
microcredit distributed and number of loans. The Financial Intermediaries and Microcredit Division will 
provide the Treasury Department information on the amount of disbursements made by the Financial 
Intermediaries to Eligible Programmes.  
 
NAFIN reports on such disbursements internally on a regular basis. Eligible Programmes means financing 
of, and/or investments in projects meeting the Social Objectives: committed after or before the issuance 
of the bond, but funded or disbursed after the issuance of the bond, and/or funded or disbursed during 
previous financial year. 
 

 

 
 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

3.4    Reporting 

Allocation Reporting 
Within one year of issuing a  NAFIN Social  Bond, NAFIN  will publish a  NAFIN  Social Bond Report on its 
investor  relations  website 
(http://www.nafin.com/portalnf/content/piso-financiero/relacion-con-
inversionistas/).  The  NAFIN  Social  Bond  Report  will  be  updated  annually  until  full  allocation  and  as 
necessary thereafter in the event of new developments. 
 
NAFIN’s Social Bond Report will contain at a minimum:  

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 
v. 

Confirmation that the use of proceeds of each NAFIN Social Bond complies with the NAFIN Social 
Bond Framework; 
A list of NAFIN programmes financed, in whole or in part, by net proceeds of the NAFIN Social 
Bond; 
The amount of net proceeds allocated to each NAFIN Programmes financed, in whole or in part, 
by net proceeds of the NAFIN Social Bond; 
The balance amount of unallocated net proceeds; 
Impact reporting elements as outlined below. 

 
Impact Reporting 
Where  feasible,  the  NAFIN  Social  Bond  Report  will  include  qualitative  and  (if  reasonably  practicable) 
quantitative environmental and social performance indicators on the Eligible Programmes. Performance 
indicators may change from year to year.  
 
Impact reporting may include some of the following information:  

i. 
ii. 

iii. 

loans  granted  to 

Number of microfinance loans granted; 
Number  of 
improvement technologies. 
Amount of credit or microcredit distributed. 
 
 

low-income  households  for 

installations  of  sustainability 

3.5  Compliance Review 
Before  the  first  anniversary  of  the  Social  Bond  issuance,  NAFIN  will  engage  Sustainalytics  (or  another 
qualified third party) to review the lending financed by  each NAFIN Social Bond in order to assess the 
compliance of the lending with the NAFIN Social Bond Framework. This review will be conducted annually 
until full allocation of the net proceeds from the NAFIN Social Bond. Sustainalytics will provide a report of 
the review, which NAFIN will publish on its investor relations website. In an unlikely event that the annual 
review identifies allocations made to activities that do not comply with the NAFIN Social Bond Framework, 
NAFIN will allocate the corresponding amounts to different lending activities that are compliant with the 
NAFIN Social Bond Framework. 
 
 

 
 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

4. SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
 
Section 1: NAFIN’s Mandate and Contribution to National Goals 
 
Sustainalytics  believes  that,  as  a  state  financing  agency,  NAFIN  is  well  positioned  to  facilitate  the 
achievement of national goals defined in the National Development Plan and the National Program for 
Financing Development.  
 
In support of NAFIN’s mission, NAFIN’s objectives include: (i) increasing access to financing under better 
conditions (such as affordable credit) as well as other business services to MSMEs and entrepreneurs with 
a focus on improving their productivity, and (ii) promoting the regional and sectoral development of the 
country through a differentiated supply of products, individually or with other intermediaries. 
 
Additionally, as a Mexican state development bank, NAFIN has a mandate to ensure that its programs are 
aligned  with  the  objectives,  strategies  and  lines  of  action  defined  in  the  National  Development  Plan. 
Mexico’s National Development Plan 2013-20187 establishes goals and policy actions that aim to boost 
the country’s economic growth and social development. 
 
The National Program for Financing Development 2013-20188 has developed objectives that correspond 
to the National Development Plan in order to facilitate access to financial services in strategic sectors. The 
National  Program  promotes  schemes  that  allow  greater  financial  inclusion  in  populations  facing 
constraints in accessing credit and other financial services. Particular emphasis is placed on programs that 
increase  productivity,  promote  the  growth  of  MSMEs,  address  gender  gaps,  and  develop  support 
programs for those affected by natural disasters. 
 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that NAFIN’s Social Bonds are aligned to both the objectives of the National 
Development Plan as well as the National Program for Financing Development. Through its Social Bonds, 
NAFIN will allocate proceeds in alignment with the National Development Plan which include strategies 
to improve access to finance for a greater number of individuals and companies in Mexico, in particular 
for underserved populations (Strategy 4.2.2), and encourage entrepreneurs and strengthen micro, small 
and medium enterprises (MSMEs) (Strategy 4.8.4). NAFIN’s  Social Bond  proceeds will also align to the 
National Program for Financing Development Plan to facilitate financial inclusion by focusing on strategic 
sectors and populations. Through NAFIN’s Social Bond proceeds, the organization will further its mandate 
and promote financial inclusion in Mexico. 
 

 

 
7 National Development Plan 2013 -2018, http://pnd.gob.mx/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/PND.pdf  
8 National Program for Financing Development 2013-2018, http://pnd.gob.mx/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/PND.pdf  

 
 

10 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Section 2: Social Impacts from Use of Proceeds 
 
Progress achieved through increasing access to finance in Mexico: 
The International Monetary Fund’s (IMF) Assessment of Financial System Stability in Mexico found that 
credit to the private sector is low, new loan origination by commercial banks has remained sluggish, and 
long-term financing is scarce.9 Though bank loans are a traditional source of financing for MSMEs, lending 
activity is very limited in Mexico. The country has fewer loans outstanding than Brazil and other Latin 
American peers. At 33 percent of GDP, Mexico‘s lending places it behind Ethiopia, a nation with much 
lower GDP per capita.10 
 
However,  over  the  last  couple  of  years,  significant  progress  has  been  achieved  by  the  Mexican 
Government to develop a number of initiatives to support entrepreneurs and strengthen MSME access 
to finance in particular, including programmes to promote youth and female entrepreneurship.11 This is 
apparent in the increase in number of SMEs obtaining a bank loan, which has increased from 248,000 in 
2009 to 316,000 in 2014 with a corresponding increase in the average loan amounts.12  
 
By  extending  access  to  finance  to  support  MSMEs  in  Mexico,  it  has  become  possible  to  develop 
programmes  that  leverage  credit  in  sectors  that  have  until  recently  been  disregarded,  such  as  the 
construction  industry,  travel  agencies,  real  estate  development  SMEs,  rural  tourism  SMEs,  small 
contributors, and government-supplier SMEs, amongst others.13  
 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that development banks, such as NAFIN, play an important role in fostering 
financial inclusion to ensure inclusive economic and social development within countries.  
 
Importance of MSME financing in Mexico: 
The  OECD  states  that  financing  microenterprises  in  developing  countries  can  serve  to  promote  equal 
opportunities for women and men as participants and beneficiaries of development.14 A study conducted 
by the Women’s World Banking (WWB) estimates that there is a market of approximately 2-2.5 million 
microentrepreneurs who are unserved by individual lending and reaching these microentrepreneurs with 
appropriate  products  would  expand  the  local  microfinance  market  and  meet  the  business  needs  of 
microentrepreneurs.15  
  
Additionally, SMEs play a strategic role within the Mexican economy. According to the National Survey 
Productivity and Competitiveness for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (ENAPROCE), conducted in 

 
9 IMF, Financial System Stability Assessment, https://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/scr/2016/cr16361.pdf  
10 Mckinsey & Company, 

http://www.mckinsey.com/~/media/McKinsey/Global%20Themes/Americas/A%20tale%20of%20two%20Mexicos/MGI_Mexico_Full_rep
ort_March_2014.ashx 

11 OECD, Mexico, Key facts on SME financing, http://www.oecd.org/cfe/smes/financing-smes-and-entrepreneurs-23065265.htm 
12 OECD, Mexico, Key facts on SME financing, http://www.oecd.org/cfe/smes/financing-smes-and-entrepreneurs-23065265.htm 
13 OECD, Mexico, Key facts on SME financing, http://www.oecd.org/cfe/smes/financing-smes-and-entrepreneurs-23065265.htm 
14 OECD, Micro-enterprise Development, http://www.oecd.org/social/gender-development/1896448.pdf  
15 Women’s World Banking, Individual Lending to Microenterprises in Mexico, https://www.womensworldbanking.org/wp-

content/uploads/2014/10/WomensWorldBanking-Microenterprise-Individual-Lending-Mexico.pdf  

 
 

11 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

2015  by  the  National  Institute  of  Statistics  and  Geography  (INEGI),  Mexico  had  4  million  SMEs  which 
accounted for 99.7% of all private companies and represented 62.6% of private-sector employment and 
35.2% of national total gross production.16 
 
According to a report by Mckinsey Global Institute, in order for Mexico to increase GDP growth and living 
standards, the country needs to focus on increasing productivity in traditional enterprises and creating 
opportunities  for  successful  ones  to  grow  into  modern,  formal  SMEs.  As  per  the  report,  the  largest 
companies in Mexico are raising productivity by an impressive 5.8% a year, while the productivity of small, 
slow-growing  enterprises  is  falling  by  6.5%  a  year.17  In  order  to  achieve  growth  of  SMEs  and  expand 
employment in the modern sector, Mexico needs to improve access to capital.18  
 
MSME entrepreneurs face stringent conditions when accessing capital such as higher interest rates for 
bank credit and higher hurdles in attracting alternative sources of finance.19 The Mexican Government has 
promoted specific programs and mandated development banks, such as NAFIN, to devote considerable 
resources in order to address the issue of MSME financing. As such, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that a 
key positive social impact of financing MSMEs in Mexico is the creation and preservation of jobs that will 
strengthen competitiveness and productivity within the country and lead to inclusive growth. 
 
Importance of financing women entrepreneurs in Mexico: 
Several studies indicate that  when more women work,  economies grow. An increase in female  labour 
force  participation, or a reduction in the gap between  women’s and men’s labour force  participation, 
results in global economic growth and a rise in global economic output by 26%, with the highest boost in 
the Latin American region.20 
 
In Mexico, women currently represent only a small fraction of the business sector: 16% in 2016, receiving 
an average salary 16% lower than that of their male counterparts. Furthermore, in 2013, 19% of Mexican 
entrepreneurs  were  women,  25%  of  which  owned  a  micro  company,  60%  a  small  company,  12%  a 
medium-sized company and only 3% owned a large one.21 According to a 2013 study by the Inter-American 
Development Bank, Mexico ranked fourth among Latin American and Caribbean countries in supporting 
the  creation  of  micro,  small,  and  medium-sized  companies  run  by  women,  scoring  60.2/100  on  the  
Women’s Entrepreneurial Venture Scope Index.22 
 
Mexico’s efforts to improve gender equality can be seen in the many institutions and programmes it has 
created  aimed  at  female  empowerment.  The  National  Program  for  Equal  Opportunities  and  Non-

 
16 OECD, Mexico, Key facts on SME financing, http://www.oecd.org/cfe/smes/financing-smes-and-entrepreneurs-23065265.htm 
17 Mckinsey & Company, http://www.mckinsey.com/global-themes/americas/a-tale-of-two-mexicos  
18 Mckinsey & Company, http://www.mckinsey.com/global-themes/americas/a-tale-of-two-mexicos 
19 OECD, Financing SMEs and Entrepreneurs, http://www.oecd.org/cfe/smes/financing-smes-and-entrepreneurs-23065265.htm  
20 UN Women, Facts and Figures, http://www.unwomen.org/en/what-we-do/economic-empowerment/facts-and-figures#notes  and 
Forbes, A U.S.-Mexico Women's Business Council, https://www.forbes.com/sites/themexicoinstitute/2017/06/12/a-u-s-mexico-womens-

business-council-lets-get-women-to-drive-the-bilateral-relationship/#25f3cc105726  

21 Wilson Center, Mexico Institute,  

https://www.wilsoncenter.org/article/us-mexico-womens-business-council-lets-get-women-to-drive-the-bilateral-relationship  

22 The Economist Intelligence Unit,  

http://www.expeditionpr.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/Womens_Entrepreneurial_Venture_Scope_2013.pdf  

12 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Discrimination  against  Women  2013-2018  (PROIGUALDAD),  which  aims  to  comply  with  the  National 
Development Plan, establishes as one of its objectives the promotion of women's access to paid work, 
decent employment and productive resources, within a framework of equality. To this end, it includes 
among its lines of action the following: 

  3.3.3. Facilitate access to financing and capital for entrepreneurs; 
  3.3.5. Consolidate productive projects of women in micro, small and medium enterprises; 
  3.3.7. Facilitate women's access to credit and funds that promote their entrepreneurial potential. 

 
Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  NAFIN’s  emphasis  on  improving  access  to  capital  for  women 
entrepreneurs through the Social Bond will contribute towards reducing Mexico’s gender gap, boosting 
the economy through increased productivity and empowering women. 
 
Importance of financing sustainable improvements in housing for low-income households  
Energy efficiency in low-income households serves as a dual purpose of reducing monthly costs for the 
beneficiary  as  well  as  contributing  to  Mexico’s  priorities  to  improve  energy  efficiency  of  residential 
buildings.  
 
Low-income households tend to use inefficient appliances, heating and cooling systems, which lead to 
higher  energy  and  gas  bills  and  a  disproportionate  amount  of  their  income  is  used  to  pay  such  bills. 
Additionally, high energy  costs  and poor housing quality  are known to contribute to health problems. 
Poorly heated or cooled homes contribute to asthma, respiratory problems, heart disease, arthritis, and 
rheumatism.23  Families  struggling  to  pay  energy  bills  may  sacrifice  nutrition,  medicine  and  other 
necessities, which compound the effects of inequality. As such, expanding energy efficiency programs to 
targeted populations in Mexico will lead to cost savings for those most in need, reducing their energy 
burden. 
 
The  Mexican  government  has  initiated  a  wide  range  of  programmes  aimed  at  improving  the  energy 
efficiency of residential buildings. The goal of the Mexican Sustainable Housing Nationally Appropriate 
Mitigation  Action  (NAMA)  is  to  promote  cost  effective  energy-efficient  building  concepts  across  the 
residential  housing  sector,  with  a  particular  focus on  low-income  housing,  where  significant  growth  is 
expected.24 NAFIN works closely with the National Housing Commission (CONAVI) and the Electric Energy 
Savings Trust (FIDE) to provide assistance to low-income households in order to install energy efficiency 
solutions in Mexico.  
 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that such assistance will lead to greater cost-savings and a reduced energy 
burden for low-income households who are currently underserved in Mexico. 
 
Advancement of U.N. Sustainable Development Goals: 
NAFIN’s Social Bond will also contribute to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), with 
a particular focus on the following: 

 
23 NRDC, https://www.nrdc.org/experts/khalil-shahyd/study-highlights-energy-burden-households-and-how-energy-efficiency-can-help  
24 CONAVI, SEMARNAT, GIZ, 

http://climate.blue/download/biblioteca_pronama/nama_vivienda_nueva/nama_vivienda_nueva_financiamiento/GIZ%202011%20Supp
orted%20NAMA%20for%20Sustainable%20Housing.pdf  

13 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

 
SDG 1: End poverty in all its forms everywhere  

- 

Target 1.4: By 2030, ensure that all men and women, in particular the poor and the vulnerable, 
have equal rights to economic resources, as well as access to basic services, ownership and control 
over  land  and  other  forms  of  property,  inheritance,  natural  resources,  appropriate  new 
technology and financial services, including microfinance 

 
SDG 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for 
all 

- 

Target 4.4: By 2030, substantially increase the number of youth and adults who have relevant 
skills, including technical and vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship 

 
SDG 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls  

- 

Target  5.A:  Undertake  reforms  to  give  women  equal  rights  to  economic  resources,  as  well  as 
access  to  ownership  and  control  over  land  and  other  forms  of  property,  financial  services, 
inheritance and natural resources, in accordance with national laws 

 
SDG 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment 
and decent work for all 

- 

Target 8.3:Promote development-oriented policies that support productive activities, decent job 
creation,  entrepreneurship,  creativity  and  innovation,  and  encourage  the  formalization  and 
growth  of  micro-,  small-  and  medium-sized  enterprises,  including  through  access  to  financial 
services 

-  By 2020, substantially reduce the proportion of youth not in employment, education or training 

 
 
 
Alignment with Social Bond Principles 2017:  
Sustainalytics has determined that NAFIN’s Social Bond Framework is aligned with the four pillars of the 
Social Bond Principles 2017.25 For detailed information please refer to Appendix 3: Social Bond Programme 
External Review Form. 
 

Conclusion 
In Sustainalytics’ opinion, NAFIN’s Social Bond Framework is closely aligned with its mandate to contribute 
to inclusive and sustainable economic development of the country. Social impacts facilitated by NAFIN’s 
lending activities will contribute to advancing Mexico’s development priorities as well as the Sustainable 
Development Goals. Sustainalytics is also of the opinion that NAFIN’s Social Bond Framework aligns with 
the ICMA’s Social Bond Principles 2017 given both the nature of the eligibility criteria for programmes and 
the targeted populations served. Proceeds from the Social Bonds will have a positive impact on vulnerable 
populations by supporting underserved populations including women, MSMEs, and low-income housing 

 
25 The Social Bond Principles 2017: https://www.icmagroup.org/assets/documents/Regulatory/Green-Bonds/SocialBondsBrochure-

JUNE2017.pdf  

14 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

in Mexico. Based on the points above, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that NAFIN’s Social Bond Framework 
is robust, credible and transparent and that the use of proceeds will have positive social outcomes. 

 
 

15 

APPENDIX 1 

NAFIN’s Definition of MSMEs 

 

Size 

Micro 

Small 

Medium 

 
 
 
 

Industry 

Number of employees 

Annual sales 

Max. weighted score26 

manufacturing, trade and 
services 
Trade 
manufacturing and services 
Trade 
Services 
manufacturing 

(Ps. in millions) 

Up to 10 

4 or less 

11 to 30 
11 to 50 
31 to 100 
51 to 100 
51 to 250 

4.01 to 100 
4.01 to 100 

100.01 to 250 
100.01 to 250 
100.01 to 250 

5 

93 
95 
235 
235 
250 

 

 
26 Obtained through the following formula: 0.1 x (number of employees) + 0.9 x (annual sales). Enterprises are considered micro, small or 

medium, as the case may be, if their maximum weighted score falls within the abovementioned limits. 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics  is  an  independent  ESG  and  corporate  governance  research,  ratings  and  analysis  firm 
supporting  investors  around  the  world  with  the  development  and  implementation  of  responsible 
investment  strategies. With 13 offices globally, Sustainalytics partners with institutional investors who 
integrate  environmental,  social  and  governance  information  and  assessments  into  their  investment 
processes.  Today,  the  firm  has  more  than  300  staff  members,  including  170  analysts  with  varied 
multidisciplinary  expertise  of  more  than  40  sectors.  Through  the  IRRI  survey,  investors  selected 
Sustainalytics as the best independent responsible investment research firm for three consecutive years, 
2012 through 2014 and in 2015, Sustainalytics was named among the top three firms for both ESG and 
Corporate Governance research. The firm was also named the Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
Global Capital in 2015. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 
Sustainalytics 
info@sustainalytics.com  
www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

23 

