 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 GREEN STORM 2017 

OBVION 

 

 

 

 
 
 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

May 10th, 2017 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 

 

Catarina da Silva (Amsterdam) 

Willem van Golstein Brouwers (Amsterdam) 

Senior Advisor, Advisory Services 
catarina.dasilva@sustainalytics.com 
(+31) 20 205 0045 
 
 
 
 

Senior Advisor, Institutional Relations 

willem.vgb@sustainalytics.com  

(+31) 20 205 0041 

 
 

Vikram Puppala  

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

1. 

Introduction 

2.  Overview of Issuer 

3.  Framework overview 
3.1  Use of Proceeds 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
3.3  Management of Proceeds 
3.4  Reporting 

4  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 

Section 1: Sustainability Performance of the Issuer 
Section 2: Impact of Use of Proceeds 
Conclusion 

APPENDICES 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

3 

3 

3 
4 
5 
5 
6 

7 
7 
8 
9 

10 

20 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

1. INTRODUCTION 
Obvion  N.V.  (Obvion),  a  Dutch  mortgage  provider  and  a  wholly  owned  subsidiary  of  Rabobank1,  has 
engaged Sustainalytics to review its planned green residential mortgage-backed security (RMBS) issuance 
(“Green STORM 2017”) and provide an opinion as to its alignment with ICMA’s Green Bond Principles2. As 
part  of  this  engagement,  Sustainalytics  has  held  conversations  with  both  Obvion’s  treasury  team  and 
Rabobank’s  sustainability  and  capital  markets  structuring  teams  to  understand  the  use  of  proceeds, 
management of proceeds and reporting aspects of this transaction, as well as the sustainability strategy 
of  the  Rabobank  Group  (Obvion’s  parent  company).  Sustainalytics  also  reviewed  relevant  public  and 
internal documents to assess the expected impact of Obvion’s Green STORM 2017. 
  
This  document  contains  three  sections:  Overview  of  the  issuer;  Green  Bond  Framework  Overview  – 
summary of Obvion’s framework for the bond; and Sustainalytics’ Opinion – an opinion on the framework. 
 
 
2. OVERVIEW OF ISSUER – OBVION AND RABOBANK 
Obvion, the issuer of Green STORM 2017, is a subsidiary of Rabobank, an international cooperative bank 
focused on providing financial services in the Netherlands and involved in retail and wholesale banking, 
and  food  and  agriculture  internationally.  Rabobank  has  the  largest  mortgage-lending  business  in  the 
Netherlands, which is complemented with a lending portfolio that is directed towards retail customers 
and  corporates.  In  2016,  Rabobank’s  and  Obvion’s  share  of  the Dutch  mortgage  market  amounted  to 
17.3% and 3.2% respectively.  
 
Rabobank has identified responsible finance as a key differentiator and strategic opportunity for the bank. 
As such, it has implemented numerous initiatives to promote sustainable financial services and products, 
including impact loans and specialized green financing. The breadth of its offerings is strengthened by a 
commitment to provide EUR 40 billion in sustainability-related financing by 2020. In addition, Rabobank 
has  a  Sustainability  Policy  Framework3  which  includes  several  responsible  investment  policies  and 
guidelines with respect to its credit and loan business.  
 
 
3. FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 
Obvion  is  planning  to  issue  a  green  RMBS.  The  security  will  be  part  of  Obvion’s  residential  mortgage 
securitization program known as STORM, which has about 17.9 billion euros of outstanding securities, 
and will be structured in line with other transactions in the STORM program (in particular the most recent 
STORM 2017-I). The aim of the Green STORM 2017 issuance is to refinance a mortgage asset pool with 
added environmental value, focusing namely on energy efficiency and energy performance. The security 
will refinance an existing mortgage loans portfolio with residential buildings in the Netherlands that meet 
the  eligibility  criteria  described  below.  Furthermore,  in  alignment  with  the  Green  Bond  Principles, 
 
1 Statutory name: Coöperatieve Rabobank U.A. 
2 “Green Bond Principles, 2016” dated 16 June 2016 issued by the International Capital Market Association (ICMA) 
3 https://www.rabobank.com/en/images/sustainability-policy-framework.pdf 

 

 

3 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

information on project evaluation and selection process, management of proceeds, and reporting is also 
documented. 
 
The Green STORM 2017 will be a fully revolving transaction up to the call date (22 April 2022). In this 
transaction, the available principal will be used to purchase new loans in order to limit amortization, and 
the notes will be repaid at the call date as a bullet payment. Additional purchase criteria are in place to 
maintain  the  credit  quality  of  the  underlying  pool,  and  all  newly  added  loans  must  comply  with  the 
eligibility criteria (including the green eligibility criteria defined in Section 3.1 of this document). 
 
3.1   Use of Proceeds 
The proceeds of the Green STORM 2017 will be used to refinance existing mortgage loans from Dutch 
residential buildings that represent the top 15% in terms of energy performance in the Netherlands, or 
which have achieved at least a 30% improvement in energy efficiency, as detailed below. The mortgages 
to be refinanced reflect a diversified portfolio in terms of geography and building types.  
 
Eligibility Criteria  
The  selection  criteria  for  inclusion  in  the  mortgage  pool  of  the  Green  STORM  2017  are  based  on:  (i) 
construction  year,  and  (ii)  Dutch  residential  Energy  Performance  Certificates.  The  Dutch  Energy 
Performance Certificate system is a result of the Dutch government’s implementation of the revised 2010 
EU Energy Performance of Buildings Directive.  Energy Performance Certificates assign a  label between 
“A” and “G” to each property, with “A” representing the best performance.  
 
The eligibility criteria for qualification for GREEN STORM 2017 pool are: 
 
1.  New  residential  buildings  (built  after  20024)  that  represent  the  top  15%  in  terms  of  energy 

performance: 
Buildings that have obtained an Energy Performance Certificate (energy label) of “A” or “B” by the 
Netherlands Enterprise Agency.5 Currently, “A” or “B” labeled residential buildings that received their 
building permit after the year 2000 represent the top 15%6 in terms of energy performance in the 
Dutch residential market.  
 

2.  Residential buildings built before 2002 that have achieved at least a 30% improvement in energy 

performance: 
•  Buildings that received the highest possible final Energy Performance Certificate (“A”) due to the 

improvements made to the property, or 

•  Buildings  with  a  definitive7  Energy  Performance  Certificate  of  “C”  or  higher  that  have 
demonstrated an improvement of two levels in the Energy Performance Certificate. This has been 

 
4 Accounting for a two-year building period from the moment of obtaining the building permit. 
5 Rijksdienst voor Ondernemend Nederland or RVO. 
6 Specifically, for the Green STORM 2017 transaction, “A” and “B” labels after 2000 represent the top 13.6% of the Dutch residential market. 
7 Prior to receiving a definitive Energy Performance Certificate, residential buildings are assigned a provisional Certificate. This Certificate 
provides a performance estimate based on general information such as the type of building, floor area and the year of construction. To acquire 
a definite Certificate, energy efficiency information will be verified by an expert.  

 

 

4 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

calculated to represent a minimum improvement of 30% in terms of energy efficiency compared 
to an average home from the same building period. 

 
Therefore, the eligible mortgage pool contains a mix of energy efficient homes and houses that have been 
refurbished to improve energy performance.  
 
 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
Obvion’s database of mortgages has been matched against the external database provided by Calcasa, a 
Dutch valuation service  agency. Calcasa sourced the underlying data with regards to definitive  Energy 
Performance Certificates directly from the  the  Netherlands Enterprise  Agency  (RVO). Where definitive 
Performance Certificates were not available, Calcasa calculated them using the RVO’s methodology for 
determining Dutch residential Energy Performance Certificates.  
 
From the asset pool that has been classified by Energy Performance labels, Obvion has selected mortgages 
for inclusion in the Green STORM 2017 based on the defined Eligibility Criteria (see section 3.1), in addition 
to Obvion’s usual mortgage loan criteria. For detailed information on the project evaluation and selection 
process see Appendix A.  
 
To  evaluate  and  select  eligible  loans,  Obvion  and  Rabobank  created  a  working  group  that  included 
Obvion’s Head of Funding & Balance Sheet Management and members of its Funding & Risk Management 
team, and  Rabobank’s Debt Capital Markets (Securitisation & Covered Bonds and Sustainable Markets 
teams).  
 
 

3.3        Management of Proceeds  
Management  
Net proceeds from the issuance of the mortgage-backed notes shall be used to fund eligible mortgages in 
the  portfolio,  and  thus  there  will  be  no  balance  of  funds  to  be  invested.  Therefore,  only  mortgages 
meeting the eligibility criteria will be backing the Green STORM 2017.  
 
The eligible loans that serve as collateral will be documented, and this information will be checked by an 
auditor.   
 
Tracking 
The total proceeds will be allocated in full at closing to existing eligible loans. Additionally, a third party 
(Intertrust) will report monthly on the portfolio regarding size, prepayments, defaults, losses, etc. Any 
new mortgage loans that are added to the transaction due to the revolving structure have to meet the 
green eligibility criteria as described in the Eligibility Criteria section (see Section 3.1 above). In case any 
loan  fails  to  comply  with  the  eligibility  criteria,  it  will  be  purchased  back  by  the  seller  (Obvion)  and 
substituted by another loan that complies with the criteria. 
 
 

 

 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

3.4    Reporting  
Allocation Reporting 
Due to the nature of the green RMBS, proceeds of the transaction will be 100% allocated upon issuance 
to refinance the eligible portfolio. The information made available to investors will provide loan by loan 
data on the underlying pool of eligible assets. As mentioned in Section 3.3, an external party will publish 
a monthly report  providing  information regarding  the  mortgages  included  in Green STROM 2017,  and 
Obvion will report yearly on the composition of the mortgages in terms of the green eligibility criteria. 
This information will be available on Bloomberg and well as on the website of the Dutch Securitisation 
Association.8 
 
Impact Reporting 
As a part of the requirements for the Climate Bond Standard for Low Carbon Buildings, Obvion appointed 
a third party to perform a CO2 calculation study to demonstrate the climate impact of the Green STORM 
2017.  This estimate  is  based  on  a  breakdown  of  the  portfolio  by  Energy  Performance  Certificate.  This 
report  will  be  included  in  the  investor  package  and  made  available  to  potential  investors.  The  CO2 
calculation is based on the real energy consumption of the properties and uses an assumed emissions 
intensity of 505 g/kWh for electricity and 1.78 kg/m3 for natural gas.  
 
 

 

 

 

 
8 www.dutchsecuritisation.nl 

 

 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

4  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
 
Section 1: Sustainability Performance of the Issuer 
Rabobank and Obvion: Strong Sustainability Performers 
Based  on  Sustainalytics’  ESG  research,  Rabobank9  is  assessed  as  a  leader  among  its  banking  peers.10  
Although  Rabobank  has  faced  some  business  ethics  issues  in  recent  years,  it  demonstrates  adequate 
performance  on  the  key  issues  of  responsible  finance  and  financial  product  governance.  Responsible 
finance  refers  to  practices  and  strategies  employed  by  banks  to  integrate  sustainability  criteria  into 
financial  lending  and  investment  decisions.  A  reorganization  of  Rabobank  in  2016,11  may  also  have  a 
positive impact for all operations to meet ESG compliance requirements and exercise control of company‐
wide ESG programmes.  
 
Sustainalytics considers that  Rabobank  has strong credit  and loan standards, strengthened by a list  of 
industries that are excluded from financing for sustainability reasons. Additionally, Rabobank outperforms 
its  peers  with  regards  to  financial  product  governance:  the  company  has  implemented  strong 
programmes to integrate customer feedback and market its products and services responsibly. Notably, 
Rabobank is member of the executive board of the Green Bond Principles. 
 
The  bank  has  an  important  presence  in  the  Dutch  housing  and  real  estate  market  and  has  enacted 
sustainability policies for the real estate sector that aim to promote higher energy efficiency, a circular 
economy, lower greenhouse gas emissions, and the use of more renewable energy in housing and real 
estate.  Additionally,  Rabobank  supports  Dutch  retail  customers  investing  in  home  improvements  to 
improve energy efficiency, by acting as a co-financer of the Dutch National Energy Saving Fund (Nationaal 
Energiebespaarfonds). This fund allows home owners to invest in energy-saving measures with favourable 
conditions.  Local  Rabobank  branches  in  the  Netherlands  are  also  organising  Smart  Refurbishment 
meetings, where retail customers can meet experts in the field of energy conservation and the generation 
of  sustainable  energy.  Furthermore,  the  company  is  a  signatory  to  the  Dutch  Energy  Agreement  for 
Sustainable Growth.12 
 
Obvion (and it’s legal predecessor) has been investing in the Dutch housing market for over 30 years and, 
alongside its parent Rabobank, is using its presence in the local market to promote the country’s transition 
towards  a  sustainable  economy.  Obvion  has  also  demonstrated  a  strong  commitment  to  responsible 
lending  through  its  JobCoach  programme,  which  supports  customers  having  difficulty  making  their 
payments with career support.  
 
These  activities  provide  evidence  that  both  Obvion  and  Rabobank  are,  in  Sustainalytics’  opinion,  well 
positioned to issue a green RMBS. In addition, Sustainalytics considers that this issuance will provide a 

 
9 As a wholly owned subsidiary of Rabobank, Sustainalytics’ assesses Obvion’s sustainability performance under its parent.  
10 As of May 2017, Sustainalytics ranks 319 Banks. Rabobank’s ESG performance places it amongst sector leaders in the Top 5 companies. 
11 Since 2016, all branches act under the central Rabobank umbrella, following the merger of 106 local banks into a single entity. 
12 http://www.energieakkoordser.nl/energieakkoord.aspx 

 

 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

positive contribution to the efforts towards improving the environmental impact of the Dutch housing 
and real estate market.  
 
Well positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated with the projects 
The Rabobank Group has a Sustainability Policy Framework which includes several responsible investment 
policies and guidelines with respect to its credit and loan business, communicating the company’s stance 
and due diligence process to avoid potential social and environmental risks stemming from the financed 
projects.  For  instance,  the  group  has  position  papers  setting  expectations  on  compliance  with  human 
rights issues and animal welfare, and has published several sector statements that serve as a guide for its 
credit policy. Overall, Sustainalytics considers that these policies and due diligence efforts strengthen the 
bank’s ability to address and mitigate risks in its loan portfolio.  
 
 
Section 2: Impact of Use of Proceeds 
 
Alignment with the Dutch government’s energy efficiency improvement initiatives 
The  Dutch  government  has  implemented  a  comprehensive  Energy  Policy,  with  an  important  focus  on 
saving energy in homes and other buildings13. In 2013, after extensive consultations with stakeholders, 
the  Netherlands  issued  its  Energy  Agreement  for  Sustainable  Growth,  a  roadmap  towards  ensuring  a 
sustainable, long-term energy supply for the country.  Alongside commitments by industry, the plan also 
highlighted that the energy efficiency of residential buildings was key to ensuring a successful execution 
of the Agreement and, more broadly, the shift to a sustainable economy. As part of this policy framework, 
the  Dutch  government  also  made  mandatory  the  energy  labelling  for  all  privately  owned  and  rented 
homes,  indicating  the  level  of  energy  efficiency  and  raising  awareness  of  energy  consumption. 
Furthermore, the government and other Dutch stakeholders have implemented stricter energy efficiency 
requirements for new homes, striving for “zero-energy by 2020”14. Considering this local context and the 
clear policy directives established by the Dutch government, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the asset 
selection criteria defined by Obvion is aligned with the Dutch government’s initiatives to improve energy 
efficiency in the housing sector and contribute to the overall efforts to achieve commitments. The assets 
selected  represent  the  top  15%  in  terms  of  energy  ratings  (“A”  and  “B”  ratings),  or  demonstrate  a 
significant improvement in performance over time.  
 
Climate Bonds Initiative Certification 
Obvion’s  Green  STORM  2017  has  received  certification  under  the  Climate  Bond  Standard,  as  it  is  in 
alignment with the Climate Bonds Initiative Residential Property Eligibility Criteria and Guidelines.15 
 
Adjustments in comparison to Obvion’s Green STORM 2016 
Obvion issued a Green STORM in 2016 using an approach similar to the one defined in this framework. In 
comparison  to  2016,  Obvion  has  selected  a  new  eligible  pool  of  assets  in  line  with  updated  Energy 

 
13 https://www.government.nl/topics/energy-policy/contents/saving-energy 
14 This means that new homes must generate almost as much energy as they consume by 2020. To achieve this aim, the energy performance 
coefficient (EPC) will be reduced gradually. 
15 https://www.climatebonds.net/standards/certification 

 

 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Performance  Certificates  data  from  Calcasa.  Furthermore,  Obvion’s  Green  STORM  2017  will  be  a  fully 
revolving transaction up to the call date (like all STORM transactions of Obvion since September 2016, but 
unlike Green STORM 2016).  
 
Alignment with the Green Bond Principles  
Sustainalytics has determined that the Obvion’s Green STORM 2017 aligns to the four pillars of the Green 
Bond Principles 2016. For detailed information please refer to Appendix B: Green Bond External Review 
Form. 
 
 
Conclusion 
Obvion’s  Green  STORM  2017  will  refinance  existing  mortgage  loans  from  Dutch  residential  buildings 
within  the  top  15%  in  terms  of  energy  performance  in  the  Netherlands,  or  with  at  least  30%  energy 
efficiency improvement. The security will be part of Obvion’s residential mortgage securitization program 
known  as  STORM.  Given  the  established  process  to  select  eligible  mortgages,  deriving  energy 
performance information from credible third parties, Sustainalytics is confident  that the refinanced loans 
will  adhere  to  the  eligibility  criteria.  The  information  made  available  to  (potential)  investors  will  be 
transparent  and  detailed  by  providing  loan-by-loan  data  on  the  underlying  pool  of  eligible  assets.  In 
Sustainalytics’ opinion, Obvion’s Green STORM 2017 is in alignment with the Green Bond Principles’ four 
components: the use of proceeds, project evaluation and selection process, management of proceeds and 
reporting.  Furthermore,  Obvion’s  Green  STORM  2017  has  been  certified  under  the  Climate  Bonds 
Standard.  Overall,  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  Obvion’s  Green  STORM  2017  is  credible  and 
transparent.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

APPENDICES 
 
Appendix A:  Green STORM 2017 - Portfolio evaluation and selection process 
 
This appendix describes the methodology that Obvion applies to select energy efficient mortgage loans 
for its green RMBS programme in line with the Climate Bond Principles: (i) a selection of Dutch residential 
properties within the top 15% in terms of energy efficiency, and (ii) a selection of improved (refurbished) 
properties with at least 30% energy efficiency improvement. 
 
Dutch Energy Performance Certificate (EPC) methodology – newly built houses 
The analysis is based on the latest calculation methodology version 1.2 of the Dutch residential Energy 
Performance  Certificates  (EPC)  presented  in  the  official  Energy  Performance  Certificate  calculation 
documents  and  tables  and  the  Dutch  Buildings  Directive  “Bouwbesluit”  which  sets  the  Dutch  Energy 
Performance Coefficient requirements, and is in line with the European Buildings Directive. EPC is the 
minimum environmental standard for newly built residential buildings and ranks houses based on their 
environmental impact with A being the best and G being the worst category. See Figure 1 and 2 for the 
energy labels per building period and the number of corresponding properties in each category. 
 

Figure 1. Schematic overview of Energy Performance Certificates based on building period and housing type by RVO, 
methodology version 1.2 
 

 

 

Figure 2. Division of Energy Performance Certificates based on number of houses according to WoON2012 until J9. For J10 
Obvion determined the number of new built houses 
 
Dutch Energy Index (EI) methodology – existing houses 
While EPC considers newly built properties, Energy Index (EI) is the measure that is used to express energy 
efficiency for existing properties and is based on the norm NEN7120+NV since 2015. NEN7120+NV is an 
improvement of the old norm ISSO 82.3 that was used until 2015. According to the Second Opinion Inijking 
Energielabels1 is the new norm equal to the old norm in complexity. The most important difference is that 
the old norm is based on the original construction quality of the houses, while the new norm takes into 

 

 

10 

T/M 19451946-19641965-19741975-19821983-19871988-19911992-19992000-20052006-20132014 en laterJ1J2J3J4J5J6J7J8J9J10C1GFDCCBBBAAC2GFDCCCBBAAC3GFDCCCBBAAC4FECCCCBAAAC5Flat/appartement*GEEBCCCBAAC6Maisonnette**FECBCCAAAAWONINGTYPE (C )Vrijstaande woningTwee / één kapwoningRijwoning hoekBOUWPERIODE (J)Rijwoning tussenMeergezinswoning© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

account the fact that many people did the most obvious energy improvements over the past years (e.g. 
double glazing). Consequently, under the new norm, older houses have on average a higher EPC/EI. By 
using the new norm the selection for refurbished houses will be stricter because the initial EPC/EI is higher 
and therefore a refurbished property will need to improve to a higher EPC in order to be eligible. In other 
words, the selected properties will have a 30% additional energy efficiency improvement compared to an 
average home from the same building period. 
 
Identification of top 15% most energy efficient houses 
The EPCs rank houses based on their environmental impact with A being the best and G being the worst 
category. The Energy Performance Coefficient norm has become more stringent from 1996 onwards by 
lowering the Energy Performance Coefficient norm for all newly builds (Table 1) 
 

Date in Dutch Building Directive 
1-1-1996 

Energy Performance Coefficient required for a building permit 
1.4 

1-1-1998 
1-1-2000 

1-1-2006 
1-1-2011 

1-1-2015 (current norm) 

1.2 
1.0 

0.8 
0.6 

0.4 

Table 1. Historic Energy Performance Coefficients per start date in the Dutch Building Directive 
 
To identify a portfolio consisting of the top 15% most energy efficient properties, all houses with an A or 
B label that were built from 2000 onwards (Energy Performance Coefficient <= 1.0) can be considered as 
a greener selection than properties that were constructed before 2000. Properties with A and B labels 
that were built after 2000 constitute the top 13.6% of the Dutch housing market and therefore remains 
well within the top 15%. A more graphical display of the selection is shown in the red square in Figure 3 
below. 

 
Figure 3. Selection of houses with A and B labels that were built after 2000 constitute the top 13.6% of the Dutch housing 
 
 
Identification of refurbished houses with at least 30% energy efficiency improvement 
Although the most efficient A and B label properties represent the best-in-class properties in terms of 
energy  efficiency,  home  improvements  (refurbishments)  of  older  properties  are  another  important 
contributor to energy savings within the housing market. Therefore it is important that the selection also 
include  these  older  refurbished  properties  that  have  improved  their  Energy  Performance  Certificate. 
According  to  the  Climate  Bond  Standard,  properties  that  have  realised  at  least  30%  improvement  in 
energy  performance  qualify  for  the  standard.  Figure  4  quantifies  the  improvements  and  shows  that 
improvement  of  the  Energy  Index  of  at  least  30%  is  equal  to  an  increase  of  2  notches  in  EPC  (with  a 

 

 

 

11 

T/M 19451946-19641965-19741975-19821983-19871988-19911992-19992000-20052006-20132014 en laterJ1J2J3J4J5J6J7J8J9J10C1GFDCCBBBAAC2GFDCCCBBAAC3GFDCCCBBAAC4FECCCCBAAAC5Flat/appartement*GEEBCCCBAAC6Maisonnette**FECBCCAAAAWONINGTYPE (C )Vrijstaande woningTwee / één kapwoningRijwoning hoekBOUWPERIODE (J)Rijwoning tussenMeergezinswoning© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

minimum of C label). Improvements  to definitive  label A are considered eligible  in any case  since  this 
would be an improvement to the best possible energy certificate. 
 

 

Figure 4. Change in Energy Index (EI) and from the original EPC (rows) to the improved EPC (column). A lower Energy Index 
represents an improvement. The lower boundary of the EI was used. EI Values according to NEN 7120+NV. 
 
 
Matching Obvion’s mortgage loans with EPC-data 
In  order  to  identify  the  current  Energy  Performance  Certificates  of  Obvion’s  mortgage  pool,  Obvion 
matched all postal codes and addresses of the residential buildings that serve as collateral to the mortgage 
loans with externally provided EPC data. The data was provided by real estate dataprovider Calcasa. The 
original  source  of  the  data  is  the  Netherlands  Enterprise  Agency  “Rijksdienst  voor  Ondernemend 
Nederland” (RVO) and contains both provisional and definitive Energy Performance Certificates. In case 
the  definitive  EPCs  were  not  available  the  label  was  calculated  by  Calcasa  based  on  the  official  EPC 
methodology  version  1.2.  Every  house  in  the  Netherlands  has  received  a  provisional  EPC  based  on 
property characteristics such as construction year and property type (see  Figure 1). Home owners are 
required to register a definitive EPC before the relevant property is sold or can register it on their own 
initiative. A definitive EPC has been audited by an expert; the expert does not visit the property in all cases 
but verifies the evidence provided by the home owner (such as pictures or invoices). Using definitive EPCs 
increases the certainty of selecting mortgages that have actually been improved by a minimum of 30%. 
 
 
Obvion’s green pool selection 
Based on the analysis on page 10 and 11, Obvion selected mortgage loans connected to buildings with an 
A  label  or  B  label  with  a  construction  year  from  2002  onwards.  Because  the  Energy  Performance 
Coefficient norm change in the year 2000 applies to the date of the building permit (as opposed to the 
actual date of building completion), Obvion only selected those A and B labels with a construction date 
from 2002 onwards in order to account for a building period of at least 2 years.  
 
Additionally Obvion selected older houses that have improved (refurbished) their energy efficiency to at 
least a definitive label A and those houses that have improved by at least two notches from the original 
EPC as per Figure 1 to the definitive Energy Performance Certificate B or C (as a proxy for at least 30% 
improvement of energy efficiency) provided by the RVO database, both according to norm NEN7120+NV. 
In order to establish the energy efficiency improvement, Obvion has determined the original EPC of every 
house in the mortgage portfolio by means of the building period and the housing type as per the Figure 
1. Since Obvion’s housing type data does not 1-on-1 match with the classifications used by the RVO, this 

 

 

12 

EPCABCDEEI0.61.21.41.82.1C1.4-57%-14%D1.8-67%-33%-22%E2.1-71%-43%-33%-14%F2.4-75%-50%-42%-25%-13%G2.7-78%-56%-48%-33%-22%TOFROM© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

was  approached  conservatively  by  classifying  the  properties  in  either  an  apartment  (C5)  or  detached 
house (C1), and all other residential buildings as terraced houses (C4). 
 
The above selection methodology leads to a total eligible provisional pool of assets for Obvion’s Green 
RMBS. Obvion will randomly select a final pool from the provisional pool to match the final transaction 
size. The proceeds of the transaction will be used to refinance these existing mortgage loans. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

13 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics  is  an  independent  ESG  and  corporate  governance  research,  ratings  and  analysis  firm 
supporting  investors  around  the  world  with  the  development  and  implementation  of  responsible 
investment  strategies. With 13 offices globally, Sustainalytics partners with institutional investors who 
integrate  environmental,  social  and  governance  information  and  assessments  into  their  investment 
processes.  Today,  the  firm  has  more  than  300  staff  members,  including  170  analysts  with  varied 
multidisciplinary  expertise  of  more  than  40  sectors.  Through  the  IRRI  survey,  investors  selected 
Sustainalytics as the best independent responsible investment research firm for three consecutive years, 
2012 through 2014 and in 2015, Sustainalytics was named among the top three firms for both ESG and 
Corporate Governance research. The firm was also named the Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
Global Capital in 2015. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com  
 
Copyright © 2017 Sustainalytics. All rights reserved. 
 
The  intellectual  property  rights  to  this  publication/report  and  the  information  contained  herein  are  vested  exclusively  in 
Sustainalytics and/or its suppliers. No part of this publication/report may be reproduced, used, disseminated, modified, published 
or  otherwise  furnished  in  any  manner  without  the  express  written  consent  of  Sustainalytics.  Nothing  contained  in  this 
publication/report shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or implied, regarding the advisability to 
invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or portfolios. The performance represented herein is historical; past 
performance is not a reliable indicator of future results and results and the information provided in this brochure is not intended 
to be relied upon as, nor to be a substitute for specific professional advice and in particular financial advice. The information on 
which this publication/report is based on reflects the situation as on the date of its elaboration. Such information has – fully or 
partially  –  been  derived  from  third  parties  and  is  therefore  subject  to  continuous  modification.  Sustainalytics  observes  the 
greatest possible care in using information but cannot guarantee that information contained herein is accurate and/or complete 
and no rights can be derived from it. The information is provided “as is” and, therefore Sustainalytics assumes no responsibility 
for  errors  or  omissions.  Sustainalytics  nor  its  suppliers  accept  any  liability  for  damage  arising  from  the  use  of  this 
publication/report or information contained herein in any manner whatsoever. 
 
Sustainalytics 
info@sustainalytics.com  
www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

20 

