PORT OF LONG BEACH 

GREEN BOND 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

June 12, 2017 

Ankita Shukla (Toronto) 
Senior Advisor, Advisory Services 
ankita.shukla@sustainalytics.com  
(+1) 416 861 0403 

Charlotte Peyraud (New York)  
Senior Advisor, Institutional Relations 
charlotte.peyraud@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 646 518 0184 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

1.  Preface 

2. 

Introduction 

3.  Framework Overview 

3.1  Use of Proceeds 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
3.3  Management of Proceeds 
3.4  Reporting 
3.5  Compliance Review 

4  Sustainalytics’ Opinion 

Conclusion 

Appendices 

Sustainalytics 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

3 

3 

4 
4 
4 
5 
5 
5 

6 
7 

8 

16 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

1. PREFACE 
 
Port of Long Beach (the “Port”) has developed a green bond framework under which it is considering to 
issue a green bond and use the proceeds to finance expenditures related to the Middle Harbor Terminal 
(MHT) Redevelopment Project. The Port has engaged Sustainalytics to provide a second opinion on its 
framework and the framework’s environmental credentials. As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics 
held conversations with various members of Port of Long Beach’s management team to understand the 
sustainability impact of their business processes and planned use of proceeds for the bond framework. 
Sustainalytics  also  reviewed  relevant  public  and  internal  documents.  This  document  contains  two 
sections:  Framework  Overview  –  summary  of  Port  of  Long  Beach’s  Green  Bond  framework;  and 
Sustainalytics’ Opinion – an opinion on the framework. 
 
2. INTRODUCTION 
 
The  Port  of  Long  Beach  is  a  public  agency  managed  and  operated  by  the  City  of  Long  Beach  Harbor 
Department. The Port is the second-busiest port in the United States and the 20th-busiest container cargo 
port in the world serving as a primary gateway of trade between the United States and Asia. 
 
The Port of Long Beach is committed to becoming the most environmentally-friendly port in the world 
with  a  vision  to  be  “the  global  leader  in  operational  excellence  and  environmental  stewardship”. 
Accordingly,  in  2005  the  Port  adopted  the  Green  Port  Policy1  which  sets  the  framework  for  its 
environmental protection efforts as well as its day-to-day operations. The Green Port Policy includes six 
basic program elements, one of which includes the reduction of harmful air emission from port activities.  
 
Sources  of  port-related  emissions  include  ocean-going  vessels,  heavy-duty  trucks,  harbor  craft,  cargo-
handling equipment and railroad locomotives. Between 2005 to 2012, the Port had achieved reductions 
in diesel particulate matter by 81%, nitrogen oxides by 54% and sulfur oxides by 88%.  
 
Moving forward, the Port is investing more than $4 billion over a decade as part of its strategic plan to 
build a modern, clean, and efficient gateway2. Fostering the development of zero-emission technologies 
to electrify operations is a key component of achieving its goal of being a zero-emissions port.  
 

 

 

 

1 http://www.polb.com/environment/green_port_policy.asp  

2 http://www.polb.com/civica/filebank/blobdload.asp?BlobID=13726  

 
 

3 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

3. FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 
 
For the purpose of issuing a green bond, Port of Long Beach has developed the following framework which 
addresses  the  four  key  pillars  of  the  Green  Bond  Principles  (GBP):  use  of  proceeds,  project  selection 
process, management of proceeds, and reporting. 
 

3.1   Use of Proceeds 

 
The proceeds of the green bond will be allocated towards financing and funding projects that meet the 
following eligibility criteria. 
 
Eligibility Criteria 
 
Port of Long Beach has identified the following projects aimed at reducing the amount of GHG emissions 
from its operational processes. This is expected to be completed through the electrification and use of 
zero emission equipment at the Port. Eligible projects include: 

 

 

  Pier E Berth E22 Wharf  and Backland Redevelopment:  this  project will lead to more  efficient 
loading and unloading of operations through (a) the conversion from diesel-powered equipment 
to  electrified 
(b)  shore‐to‐ship  power  
outlets  to  allow  ships  to  turn  off  auxiliary  generators  in  order  to  reduce  emissions.  
 

rail-mounted  gantry  crane  operations  and 

  Pier E Container Yard / Intermodal Railyard: the project will develop infrastructure to support 
electric automatic stacking cranes and electric automatic dial cantilever gantry cranes which leads 
to reduction in air emissions by removing the requirement of trucks. Supporting infrastructure 
will include (a) railway track expansion and (b) container storage yard. 

 
Please refer to Appendix A for additional details of eligible projects. 
 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
 
Port of Long Beach will allocate proceeds of the green bond towards eligible projects outlined above. The 
selection  of  eligible  projects  is  a  collaborative  effort  among  the  Engineering  Bureau,  Environmental 
Planning Division, and Finance Division. The Engineering Bureau, in collaboration with the Environmental 
Planning  division  which  handles  the  California  Environmental  Quality  Act  (CEQA)  and  Environmental 
Impact Report (EIR) processes, reviews the capital program based on a 10-year cash flow forecast plan 
and identifies possible projects that meet  the “green projects” criteria. The Finance Division reviews the 
funding need of eligible capital projects selected by the Engineering Bureau to determine its financing 
options. The evaluation and selection process takes approximately 1-2 months. 
 
 

 
 

4 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

3.3        Management of Proceeds  

 
The Finance Division will track  green bond proceeds with assistance  from the Engineering Bureau and 
Environmental  Planning  Division. The  Finance  Division  will  review  project  expenditures  with  the 
Engineering Bureau and Environmental Planning Division every month, identify the eligible project cost 
and fund the green projects every quarter. Pending allocation of the green bond proceeds to eligible green 
projects, the Finance Division will track and maintain an amount equal to the balance of unallocated green 
bond proceeds separately by setting up accounts under the subportfolio. At the end of fiscal year, Finance 
Division will reconcile the allocated green bond proceeds with the eligible green bond project costs. 
 

3.4    Reporting  

 
Annually, until the green bond proceeds are fully allocated, Port of Long Beach will report the annual use 
of proceeds allocated per eligible project as well as annual balance of outstanding bond proceeds. This 
disclosure will continue until such time as the proceeds of the bonds are fully allocated.  
 
The Port anticipates a 28% reduction in GHG emissions upon the full completion of the Middle Harbor 
Terminal (MHT) Project as compared to a traditional diesel terminal. Each year, the Port completes an 
extensive  emissions  inventory  in  which  it  calculates  GHG  emissions  associated  with  the  Port 
operations. Going  forward,  the  Port  will  quantify  the  actual  GHG  emissions  from  sources  listed  in 
Appendix B (in tons of CO2e avoided per year) from the MHT. The analysis will track annual operational 
emission reduction due to the electrification of the MHT with the final anticipated GHG reduction target3.  
 

3.5    Compliance Review 

 
Before the first anniversary of the green bond issuance, Port of Long Beach will engage Sustainalytics to 
review projects funded by the green bond proceeds in order to assess the compliance of projects with the 
eligibility  criteria.  Sustainalytics  will  provide  a  report  of  the  evaluation,  which  the  Port  may  publically 
disclose. In an unlikely event that non-conformance is determined, the Port may reallocate the bond funds 
to a different project that meets the criteria. 
 

 

 

3 Note: The 28% reduction will not be achieved until full buildout of MHT and the full conversion of diesel to electric is complete.  

Furthermore, changes in the GHG emissions at the utility level may impact the KPI. This information will be gathered and the impact will be 
reported on a best effort basis. 

5 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

4  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
 
Reduction of GHGs through Use of Proceeds 
The  growth  of  international  trade  has  led  to  larger and  more  specialized  vessels  as  well  as  a  need  to 
expand  port  capacity.  Transportation  activity  at  ports  have  a  significant  affect  on  the  surrounding  air 
quality releasing airborne emissions, such as diesel particulate matter (DPM), which is harmful to human 
health4. As a result, new or improved wharves and modern cargo handling facilities are required which 
limit adverse impacts on the surrounding environment5.  
 
Ports have traditionally relied on the use of diesel engines in order to move containers. According to an 
OECD Case Study on the Port of Long Beach, substantial environmental advantages exist in using rail to 
transfer containers from vessels and by moving containers using rail rather than truck6. The study found 
that any cargo that is moved by train from the Port benefits the overall transportation system by reducing 
the truck trips, total truck mileage, and their associated impacts. Furthermore, diesel-powered trains are 
two to four times more fuel-efficient and emit two to three times less pollution than trucks on a ton-mile 
basis7. Accordingly, the Port  of Long Beach  intends to increase on-dock  rail such that 30% of its cargo 
would be handled by on-dock facilities by 20308. 
 
Additionally,  the  Port  will be  able  to  achieve  further  emission  reductions  by  building  infrastructure to 
support autonomous technology through electric, self-driving cranes and carriers. The new equipment 
will double the volume of containers the terminal handles while cutting emissions in half9.  
 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the two projects funded through the Port of Long Beach’s green bond 
will reduce air emissions at the Port by reducing the requirement of trucks. 
 
Alignment with California’s environmental commitment 
Through  the  Global  Warming  Solutions  Act  of  2006,  California  commited  to  reduce  statewide  GHG 
emissions to 1990 levels by 2020, about a 15% reduction from business as usual, and to reduce emissions 
by 80% below 1990 levels by 205010. In order to meet targets, the state adopted a ‘Scoping Plan’  that 
contains an extensive list of measures to reduce GHG emissions, a number of which are specific to ports 
and the movement of goods. Updates to the Scoping Plan in 2014 stated that California has reduced diesel 

 

4 http://www.unescap.org/sites/default/files/pub_1234_ch2.pdf 

5 http://www.unescap.org/sites/default/files/pub_1234_intro.pdf  

6 http://www.oecd.org/officialdocuments/publicdisplaydocumentpdf/?cote=env/epoc/wpnep/t(2009)5/final&doclanguage=en 

7 http://www.oecd.org/officialdocuments/publicdisplaydocumentpdf/?cote=env/epoc/wpnep/t(2009)5/final&doclanguage=en 

8 http://www.oecd.org/officialdocuments/publicdisplaydocumentpdf/?cote=env/epoc/wpnep/t(2009)5/final&doclanguage=en 

9 https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-04-25/on-this-waterfront-robot-longshoremen-are-the-new-contenders 

10 https://www.arb.ca.gov/cc/ab32/ab32.htm   and   https://www.gov.ca.gov/news.php?id=1861 

 
 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

particulate matter (PM) emissions at the largest ports by 70% since 2005 however, much more needs to 
be done to continue to reduce the impacts from air pollution, including diesel PM11. Furthermore, the 
Scoping Plan states that investments are necessary for projects which “include, but are not limited to: 
zero  emission  port  trucks  for  near-dock  rail  pilot  projects;  pilot  projects  to  deploy  zero  emission  and 
hybrid vehicles and equipment at distribution centers located in areas most affected by air pollution; and 
development  and  demonstration  of  advanced  technology  locomotives,  marine  vessels,  and  cargo 
handling equipment”12. 
 
Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  Port  of  Long  Beach  are  aligned  with  California’s  priorities, 
commitments and goals to reduce GHG emissions through its eligible green bond projects. 
 
Alignment with Green Bond Principles 2016  
Sustainalytics has determined that Port of Long Beach’s Green Bond Framework aligns to the four pillars 
of  the  Green  Bond  Principles  2016.  For  detailed  information  please  refer  to  Appendix  C:  Green 
Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form. 
 
 
Conclusion 
Sustainalytics is of the view that the projects funded through the Port of Long Beach’s use of proceeds 
will  effectively  contribute  to  reducing  air  emission  in  the  surrounding  region.  Additionally,  the  Port’s 
initiatives to reduce air emissions at its port will contribute to important state-level priorities and goals.  
 
The Port’s Green Bond Framework is in alignment with the four pillars of Green Bond Principles 2016. The 
Framework defines a clear eligibility criteria, demonstrates a structured and transparent project selection 
process, and outlines clear and transparent processes for the management of proceeds and reporting 
with KPIs that capture the reduction of GHG emissions. Based on the above considerations, Sustainalytics 
is of the view that the Port’s green bond is robust, credible and transparent. 

 

 

11 https://www.arb.ca.gov/cc/scopingplan/2013_update/first_update_climate_change_scoping_plan.pdf 

12 https://www.arb.ca.gov/cc/scopingplan/2013_update/first_update_climate_change_scoping_plan.pdf 

 
 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

APPENDICES 
Appendix A: Eligible Projects 
 
Proceeds from the Port of Long Beach green bond will be used to finance the following projects: 
 

Theme / 

Impact Area 

Proposed Projects 

HD-S2365, Pier E 
Berth E22 Wharf  
and Backland 
Redevelopment 

Total 
Project 

Cost 
$118M 

$151M 

HD-S2368, Pier E 
Container 
Yard/Intermodal 
Railyard 

Energy 

Efficiency  

 

 

 
 

Description of Project 

A new concrete pile supported wharf of approximately 
134 feet wide and 1,411 feet long including crane rail, 
marine fender and mooring systems located along the 
designated berth E22. Wharf will be equipped with 
electrical power for gantry cranes and shore‐to‐ship 
power outlets to provide power at 6.6kV for shipboard 
electrical equipment and allow a ship to turn off its 
auxiliary generators while at berth.   A total of 5 of these 
power outlet locations will be provided in this milestone 
bringing the total to 15 for the terminal. 

An Intermodal rail yard expansion project with expanded 
on-dock rail facilities contributing to operational 
improvements. Working track area extended to a new 
total length of approximately 34,974 track feet of usable 
track on 7 tracks. Plus a new arrival/departure/storage 
yard area adjacent to the working tracks consisting of 
approximately 17,875 track feet of usable track on 4 
tracks. All tracks  connected to the Port’s mainline tracks 
in the north and to the off‐terminal storage tracks in the 
south.  A sufficient tail track provided within the terminal 
for switching and escape for Class 1 railroad locomotive 
power consisting of up to 5 locomotives.  Switches to be 
automated and de‐rail provisions included.  
 
Construction of the final phase of container storage yard 
stacks bringing the total blocks to 36 capable of stacking 
containers up to six‐high. Infrastructure for the Container 
Yard and Intermodal Rail Yard will be constructed to 
support the respective 72 electric automatic stacking 
cranes and the 5 electric automatic dual cantilever gantry 
cranes. 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Appendix B: Emissions Sources to be Reported  
 
Port of Long Beach will track yearly emissions achieved to the final anticipated reduction in Year 2030 
for the following emission sources: 
 

Ships 

Ships - Hoteling: Auxiliary Engine 
Ships - Hoteling: Boiler 

OGV:  Cold-Ironing Electrical Consumption 
Container Yard Equipment 

RTG (CY) 
Top-Pick (CY) 
Side-Pick (CY) 
Yard Tractor (CY) 
Railyard Equipment 

RTG (RY) 
Yard Tractor (RY) 

Terminal Electricity Consumption 
Reefers Refrigerant Loss 

 

 

 
 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 

15 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics  is  an  independent  ESG  and  corporate  governance  research,  ratings  and  analysis  firm 
supporting  investors  around  the  world  with  the  development  and  implementation  of  responsible 
investment  strategies. With 13 offices globally, Sustainalytics partners with institutional investors who 
integrate  environmental,  social  and  governance  information  and  assessments  into  their  investment 
processes.  Today,  the  firm  has  more  than  300  staff  members,  including  170  analysts  with  varied 
multidisciplinary  expertise  of  more  than  40  sectors.  Through  the  IRRI  survey,  investors  selected 
Sustainalytics as the best independent responsible investment research firm for three consecutive years, 
2012 through 2014 and in 2015, Sustainalytics was named among the top three firms for both ESG and 
Corporate Governance research. The firm was also named the Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
Global Capital in 2015. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 
Sustainalytics 
info@sustainalytics.com  
www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

16 

