 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

THE PROVINCE OF JUJUY 

GREEN BOND 

 

 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND PARTY 

OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

July 13, 2017 

Ankita Shukla (Toronto) 
Senior Advisor, Advisory Services 
ankita.shukla@sustainalytics.com  
(+1) 416 861 0403 

Georgina Symons-Jones (London)  
Manager, Institutional Relations 
georgina.symonsjones@sustainalytics.com 
(+44) 203 514 3124 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

1.  Preface 

2.  Overview of Issuer 

3.  Framework Overview 

3.1  Use of Proceeds 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
3.3  Management of Proceeds 
3.4  Reporting 

4  Sustainalytics’ Opinion 

Section 1: Sustainability Commitments of the Issuer 
Section 2: Impact of Use of Proceeds 
Conclusion 

Appendix 1 

Appendix 2 

Sustainalytics 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

3 

3 

4 
4 
5 
6 
6 

7 
7 
9 
10 

11 

12 

18 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

1. PREFACE 
 
La Provincia de Jujuy, a province in Argentina (hereinafter reffered to as “the Province of Jujuy”, or “the 
Province”)  intends to issue  a  Green Bond  to  finance  the  300  MW  Cauchari solar park  project  and has 
engaged Sustainalytics to provide a second party opinion on its Green Bond Framework. Sustainalytics’ 
opinion  intends  to  provide  an  assessment  of  the  Green  Bond  Framework’s  alignment  with  the 
transparency and reporting requirements of the Green Bond Principles1 as well as assess the Province’s 
overall sustainability commitment and its alignment with the framework. 
 
To come to this opinion, Sustainalytics reviewed several public and internal documents provided by the 
Province of Jujuy. These documents were reviewed to understand the Province’s commitments, the use 
of  proceeds,  management  of  proceeds  and  reporting  aspects  of  the  Green  Bond  to  be  issued.  This 
document  contains  two  sections:  Framework  Overview  –  summary  of  the  the  Province’s  Green  Bond 
Framework; and Sustainalytics’ Opinion – an opinion of the framework.   
 
  
2. OVERVIEW OF ISSUER 
 
La Provincia de Jujuy is located in the northwest region of Argentina, bordering both Chile and Bolivia. 
The Province is in the process of formalizing its “Green Jujuy: Carbon Neutral 2030” program to address 
climate change and advance the provincial contribution of renewable energy. 2 The Province is 
committed to: 

  make a large contribution to reduce GHG emissions; 
  generate ~50% of its energy demand from renewable sources in 2017; 
 

increase its solar energy generation two-and-a-half times the province’s energy demand in 
eight or nine years.3 

 
Solar energy studies made throughout the country show that the northwest region of Argentina is one 
of the most suitable sites for renewable energy generation because it has one of the highest solar 
irradiation of the world (See Appendix 1). 
 
In line with its commitment to increase its generating capacity of renewable energy, the Province is 
issuing a Green Bond to finance a solar park project with a generating capacity of 300MW in the region 
of Cauchari. 

 

 

1 The Green Bond Principles are voluntary process guidelines that recommend transparency and disclosure and promote integrity in the 

development of the Green Bond market. They provide issuers guidance on the key components involved in launching a credible Green Bond 
and aid investors by ensuring availability of information necessary to evaluate the environmental impact of their Green bond investments. 

2 www.paginacentral.com.ar/politica-jujuy/8029-campana-jujuy-verde-carbono-natural-

2030&usg=ALkJrhjCmRNFWfv4dJSu9w2GEP7hPCGE3A   

3 https://www.pv-tech.org/news/argentina-plans-3gw-of-solar-in-jujuy  

3 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

3. FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 
 
The following section summarizes the Province of Jujuy Green Bond Framework which follows the four 
key pillars of the Green Bond Principles (GBP) including: the use of proceeds, process for project selection, 
management of proceeds, and reporting. 
 
 
3.1   Use of Proceeds 
 
The  proceeds of the  Green  Bond  will  be  allocated towards  financing  projects  that  meet  the  following 
eligibility criteria. 
 
3.1.1  Eligibility Criteria 
 
RENEWABLE ENERGY 
 
The Province will use Green Bond proceeds for expenditures related to the development of the Province 
of  Jujuy’s  300MW  Cauchari  solar  park  project  which  consists  of:  Photovoltaic  Park  Cauchari  Solar  I 
(100MW), Photovoltaic Park Cauchari Solar II (100MW), and Photovoltaic Park Cauchari Solar III (100MW). 
 
Proceeds  may  be  used  towards  capital  and  operational  expenditures  allocated  to  acquisition, 
development, operation and maintenance of the Cauchari solar park. Such expenditures may include: 

1.  Project studies (e.g. technical solar energy potential reports) 
2.  Environmental impact and Social impact reports 
3.  Engineering design 
4.  Construction  work  (including  electrical  installation,  related  building  structures,  supporting 

facilities during construction phase, etc.) 

5.  Acquisition of solar photovoltaic (PV) panels 
6.  Acquisition of electrical equipment (e.g. transformers, cables, special illumination for obstacle, 

etc.) 

7.  Acquisition of (other) equipment (e.g. waterproofing materials, water pressure pipes, etc.) 
8.  Commissioning expenses (costs of configuration, security, etc.) 
9.  Capital contribution in the company/project investing in and/or operating the solar park 
10. Taxes, fees and/or duties related to the import of goods and services for the direct benefit of 

the construction and/or operation of the solar park 

11. Legal counseling 
12. Risk insurances 
13. Project Management 

 

 

 

 
 

4 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
 
Environmental Sustainability Objective of the Issuer 
The Province has selected the solar park projects on its ability to contribute to the Green Jujuy: Carbon 
Neutral 2030 program in order to advance the provincial contribution of renewable energy. Additionally, 
the Cauchari solar project is expected to position the Province as a leader in solar PV installations within 
Latin America. 
 
Project Evaluation and Selection 
The  Province  of  Jujuy’s  Energy  and  Mining  State  Company  (JEMSE)  is  in  charge  of  all  technical  and 
environmental  obligations  of  the  project.  The  Cauchari  solar  park  project  was  approved  following  a 
technical, legal, organizational, economic and financial feasibility study.  
 
Cauchari was  selected as the  location of the solar park project  following a  feasibility study which had 
considered the following factors: 

1.  The availability of evacuation line and its capacity; 
2.  The  radiation  levels  of  the  site  are  significantly  higher  than  other  locations  in  the  world  (See 

Appendix 1); 

3.  There are optimum conditions for stable and near constant production throughout the year; 
4.  The availability of large tracts of land with no other alternative uses; 
5.  The short distance to the evacuation line; 
6.  The infrastructure already exists for operable logistics and communication throughout the year; 
7.  The topography of the site that does not require significant soil movement or deforestation; 
8.  The  low  surrounding  population  which  reduces  negative  impact  of  the  project  to  nearby 

communities. 

 
The  Cauchari Solar park project  has been awarded a tender for  a  20 year Power Purchase  Agreement 
which was submitted following an extensive technical, legal and environmental feasibility analysis carried 
out by the regulator (Wholesale Electricity Market Administration Company, CAMMESA). 
 
Risk Mitigation 
The  Province  has  undergone  various  impact  assessments,  received  land  use  permits  and  has  met  all 
applicable environmental laws.  
 

1.  Environmental Impact Assessment - the Province had conducted an EIA governed by Decree No. 
5980 of - Environmental Impact Assessment and Technical Norms of Environmental Quality for 
the  protection  of  the  atmosphere,  water  and  soil.  The  project  was  granted  environmental 
feasibility on August  11, 2016, through resolution 182-SCA / 2016, 183-SCA / 2016, 184-SCA / 
2016 issued by the Environmental Quality Secretariat of the Ministry of Environment, Province of 
Jujuy. 
 

2.  Land Use Permits - the project will be located in the Aboriginal Community, "Termas de Tuzgle - 
Atacama Village", in the town of Puesto Sey. The Province has entered into an agreement with 
the  Aboriginal Community  to  use  the  land  for  the  development of  a  solar  park,  for  which  the 

5 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

project will pay to the community 2% of its net profit, will prioritize the adquisition of goods and 
services from local vendors and has committed to support their development. 

3.  National and Provincial Laws - all relevant national and provincial laws have been complied to. 
Particular importance for application has been given to National Law 27.191 “Renewables Energy 
for the Production of Electric Energy” and Provincial Law 5.904 “Promotion and Development of 
Solar Energy”. 

 

 
 

3.3        Management of Proceeds  

 
The proceeds will be tracked and accounted for by the Minister of Finance of the Provincia of Jujuy to 
finance projects that meet the Eligibility Criteria stated in Section 3.1.1. Proceeds from the bond issuance 
will be transferred from the Paying Agent account (BNY Mellon) to a local USD account in Banco Nación 
Argentina, Jujuy branch. The Province of Jujuy will be the beneficiary of this account. The funds will then 
be transferred to a Jujuy’s Energy and Mining State Company (JEMSE) USD account located in the Jujuy 
branch in either of the two banks: ICBC and Galicia. JEMSE will make all payments related to the project 
on behalf of the each of the Special Purpose Vehicles: Cachauri I, Cachauri II and Cachauri III.  
 
Pending allocation of the green bond proceeds to eligible green project, the net proceeds from the bond 
may be used for cash, cash equivalents (time deposits) and short term securities issued by the National 
Government. All instruments will be nominated in USD and for a period no longer than 360 days. 
 
 
3.4    Reporting  
 
Allocation Reporting 
Annually, until the proceeds are fully allocated from the Green Bonds, the Province will provide disclosure 
regarding the amount of Green Bond proceeds allocated to eligible projects. Disclosure on the allocation 
of  the  bond  proceeds  will  be  included  in  JEMSE’s  financial  statements  which  will  be  available  on  the 
Province’s website at the end of each fiscal year (http://prensa.jujuy.gob.ar/tag/jemse/). This disclosure 
will  continue  until  such  time  as  the  proceeds  of  the  bonds  are  fully  expended.  Once  all  Green  Bond 
proceeds  are  allocated  and  disclosure  regarding  such  allocation  is  made,  no  further  updates  will  be 
provided. 
 
Impact Reporting 
The Province has committed to quantitatively disclosing the following:  

1.  Net annual installed capacity in MW;  
2.  Estimated GHG emissions avoided annually in tonnes of CO2 avoided. 

 
Given that the project portfolio has already been defined, impact indicators will be static throughout the 
life of the Green Bond. 

 

 
 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

4  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
 
Section 1: Sustainability Commitments of the Issuer 
 
Contribution of framework to national renewable energy commitments 
Argentina  has  been  running  an  energy  deficit  since  2011,  which  has  triggered  various  ambitious 
government initiatives to install additional capacity with a focus on renewable energy growth. In 2016, 
more than 60% of Argentina’s energy came from fossil fuels and only 2% from renewable energy, which 
included 215 MW of installed wind power capacity and 15 MW of solar. 
 
The Argentinian government had declared 2017 as the “Year of Renewable Energy”. This was supported 
by a commitment to increase the share of renewable energy in total capacity from 2% in 2016 to 8% by 
December 2017, and to 20% by December 2025, which is in line with Argentina’s commitment to the Paris 
Agreement  to  combat  Climate  Change.  4  The  government  has  recently  established  various  legal 
frameworks and programmes in order to achieve its reduction targets which include: 

1.  Law  27.191,  published  on  31  March  2016,  which  is  the  main  policy  supporting  Argentina’s 

development of renewables and establishes the country’s renewables mandate.  

2.  Renewable Energy Plan 2016-2025 (RenovAr), which incorporates features such as government-
sponsored project financing, guarantees supported by multilateral institutions, fiscal incentives, 
and  put  options  allowing  project  owners  to  short-circuit  dispute  resolution  procedures  in  the 
event of key default scenarios. 

 
The government predicts that a reduction of 8% by the end of 2017 requires investments of approximately 
$5 billion in order to install between 2,000 and 3,000 MW and between $15 billion and $20 billion in order 
to install 10,000 MW by 20255. Under the RenovAR, the government awarded a total of 1,100 MW worth 
of  new  renewable  energy  projects  in  2016.6  Of  the  400  MW  of  solar  electricity  projects  which  were 
awarded, the Cauchari I, II, and III projects made up a combined capacity of 300 MW. 
 
Based on a review of the Argentinian government’s recent actions, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that 
the Cauchari project is aligned with, and will contribute towards, the country’s commitments to increase 
the share of renewable energy in the country’s energy mix.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
4 http://www.business-sweden.se/contentassets/5060248bb36f40f99f89a93964c8ad73/get-on-the-grid-with-renewable-energy-

opportunities-in-chile--argentina.pdf  

5 http://www.reuters.com/article/argentina-energy-idUSL5N17B4HN  
6 https://cleantechnica.com/2016/10/18/argentina-awards-400-mw-solar-1-1-gw-renewable-energy-auction/  

7 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Contribution of framework to provincial renewable energy commitments 
The Province of Jujuy supports the Central Government’s measures to increase the share of renewable 
energy.  As  per  internal  documents,  the  Province  aspires  to  demonstrate  the  technical  and  economic 
feasibility  of  solar  PV  projects  in  Argentina  and  provide  inspiration  to  other  provinces  and  domestic 
companies to develop cleaner and more sustainable power.  
 
The  Province  promotes  the  use  of  solar  resources  within  the  province  by  implementing  short-  and 
medium-  term  policies.  Recently,  the  Province  has  sanctioned  a  new  law  for  the  promotion  and 
development  of  solar  energy  (Law  5.904),  which  establishes  the  creation  of  the  Jujuy  Province  Solar 
Program  to  encourage  the  development  and  implementation  of  both  off-grid  and  grid-connected  PV 
systems across the region. Additionally, the Province will adhere to the National Law 26.190 for the use 
of Renewable Energy Sources destined for Electric Power and support targets outlined in National Law 
27.191.7  
 
Accordingly, the Province created targets to develop an installed capacity of 4,000 MWp of solar power 
by 2032. The Province’s Cauchari project is the first stage of an energy strategic plan aimed at turning 
Jujuy into the country’s leading solar power generator.8 
 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Cauchari solar park project is an important step in the governments 
efforts to achieve its commitments and believes that the project will position the province as a leader in 
solar energy within the country. 
 
Well positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated with the project 
The Province has conducted a feasibility study for each of the Cauchari projects which included both an 
Environmental and Social Impact Assessments, as required by local regulation. The Impact Assessments 
proposed a series of measures to mitigate negative impacts during the construction of the project which 
included: socio-cultural and economic factors, handling of solar PV panels by contractors, use of fuels and 
lubricants, landscape, floral, fauna, wastewater and solid waste management. These measures are further 
detailed  in  the  Environmental  Management  Plan  for  each  of  the  three  projects  which  outlines  an 
implementation and monitoring plan, timelines, and roles and responsibilities. 
 
The feasibility study included a survey with nearby village respondents and found that the main benefits 
perceived by the community include: employment generation, reliability of electricity, and reduced cost 
of electricity. Respondents hope that these benefits will result in an improved quality of life. Additionally, 
the feasibility study found that the sparsely populated surroundings will minimize possible interferences 
during work execution and the negative impacts of the project on local communities. 
 
Sustainalytics  recognizes  that  environmental  and  social  risks  are  associated  with  solar  development 
projects,  however  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  Province’s  Environmental  and  Social  Assessment  in 
conjunction with community dialog will allow the Province to manage and address such risks. 
 

 
7 http://www.solarnews.es/america/2016/02/08/argentinean-government-plans-giant-solar-project/  
8 Jujuy Energía y Minería Sociedad del Estado. Cauchari Solar Business Plan. September 2016. 

8 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Section 2: Impact of Use of Proceeds 
 
Impact of the Cauchari solar park project 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Cauchari solar park project will contribute to (i) clean, affordable 
energy requirements of the country, and (ii) socio-economic advancement of the local community. 
 
The demand for electricity in Argentina has increased at a constant rate over the past 15 years, from 83.8 
TWh in 2000 to 136.9 TWh in 2015 which corresponds to an increase in demand of 63.4%.9 According to 
Argentina’s undersecretary for renewable energy, boosting renewable energy makes both environmental 
and economic sense considering that for every 1,000 MW in renewable energy produced, the country 
saves $300 million annually in liquid fuel, and reduces CO2 by 2 million tons, which is equivalent to taking 
1 million cars off the road.10 
 
Combined, the three solar projects in Cauchari are estimated to generate more than 660 GWh of clean 
energy, which is equivalent to the consumption requirements of approximately 300,000 houses and 1.2 
million individuals. The energy generated will prevent the emission into the atmosphere of 690.000 tons 
of CO2 per year from thermal coal generation or 270.000 tons of CO2 from gas generation. 
 
Argentina’s northwest states of Jujuy, Salta, Catamarca, La Rioja, San Juan and Mendoza has some of the 
best insolation in the world boasting global horizontal irradiation (GHI) of 2,600 kWh/m211. As a result, 
solar energy represents a significant opportunity to generate affordable clean power while meeting the 
country’s electricity demands.  
 
The  Cauchari  project  will  also  contribute  to  the  socio-economic  advancement  of  the  region  which  is 
characterized as having low investments to date. The project is expected to stimulate the local economy 
by creating approximately 600 jobs during  the construction of the project and approximately 100 jobs 
during  its  ongoing  operation.  The  Province  has  entered  into  an  agreement  with  affected  aboriginal 
communities to compensate the community with 2% of net profits to be used for local development. The 
Ministry of Production and Industry Affairs is in the process of developing a Sustainability Plan to support 
and guide the local community on allocation of profits. Profits are expected to be allocated towards two 
main objectives: (i) develop local vendors for the supply of the plant’s operational needs and (ii) social 
welfare, such as healthcare and education.  
 
Alignment with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were set in September 2015 and form an agenda for achieving 
sustainable  development  by  the  year  2030.  The  Province  of  Jujuy’s  Cauchari  solar  park  project  is 
particularly  relevant  to  SDG  7,  Affordable  and  Clean  Energy,  which  includes  targets  to  increase 
substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix. Additionally, Sustainalytics believes 
that  SDG  7  is  vital  in  achieving  many  of  the  other  SDGs,  including  combating  climate  change  and 
eradicating poverty. 
 
9 Wholesale Electricity Market Administration Company (CAMMESA); www.cammesa.com  
10 http://www.ifc.org/wps/wcm/connect/news_ext_content/ifc_external_corporate_site/news+and+events/news/argentina-taps-into-its-

renewable-energy-potential 

11 https://www.greentechmedia.com/articles/read/argentina-wakes-up-to-the-opportunity-of-solar  

9 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

 
Alignment with Green Bond Principles 2017  
Sustainalytics has determined that the Province of Jujuy’s Green Bond Framework aligns to the four pillars 
of  the  Green  Bond  Principles  2017.  For  detailed  information  please  refer  to  Appendix  2:  Green 
Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form. 
 
 
Conclusion 
The Province  of Jujuy,  situated in  the  northwest  region of the country,  has vast  potential to generate 
renewable energy through solar PV installations. The 300 MW Cauchari solar park project will contribute 
to Argentina’s commitments to generate renewable energy and reduce carbon emissions. The Province’s 
Green Bond Framework follows the guidance provided by the Green Bond Principles and is in alignment 
with its four pillars – the use of proceeds, process of project evaluation and selection, management of 
proceeds  and  reporting.  Additionally,  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  through  its  Environmental 
Management  Plan,  the  Province  is  well  positioned  to  address  common social and  environmental  risks 
associated with the Cauchari solar park project. Based on the above considerations, Sustainalytics is of 
the view that the Province of Jujuy’s Green Bond is robust and credible. 
 
 
  

 

 
 

10 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

APPENDIX 1 
Global Horizontal Irradiance (GHI) 
 
The radiation reaching the earth's surface can be represented in a number of different ways. Global 
Horizontal Irradiance (GHI) is the total amount of shortwave radiation received from above by a surface 
horizontal to the ground. This value is of particular interest to photovoltaic installations and includes 
both Direct Normal Irradiance (DNI) and Diffuse Horizontal Irradiance (DIF)12. 
 
Argentina has exceptional solar resources in most of the north west of its territory, from Mendoza to 
Jujuy, with an average annual global horizontal irradiance of more than 2,600KWh/m². 
 
 

 
Source: http://www.alternativeenergyhq.com/best-solar-power-regions-worldwide.php   

 

 
12 http://www.3tier.com/en/support/solar-prospecting-tools/what-global-horizontal-irradiance-solar-prospecting/  

11 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 
 

 

 

 
 

17 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics  is  an  independent  ESG  and  corporate  governance  research,  ratings  and  analysis  firm 
supporting  investors  around  the  world  with  the  development  and  implementation  of  responsible 
investment  strategies. With 13 offices globally, Sustainalytics partners with institutional investors who 
integrate  environmental,  social  and  governance  information  and  assessments  into  their  investment 
processes.  Today,  the  firm  has  more  than  300  staff  members,  including  170  analysts  with  varied 
multidisciplinary  expertise  of  more  than  40  sectors.  Through  the  IRRI  survey,  investors  selected 
Sustainalytics as the best independent responsible investment research firm for three consecutive years, 
2012 through 2014 and in 2015, Sustainalytics was named among the top three firms for both ESG and 
Corporate Governance research. The firm was also named the Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
Global Capital in 2015. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 
Sustainalytics 
info@sustainalytics.com  
www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

18 

