 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 QBE INSURANCE GROUP 

GREEN BOND 

 

 

 

 
 
 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

March 20th, 2017 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 

Trisha Taneja (Toronto) 

Catalina Secreteanu (Sydney) 

Advisor, Advisory Services 

Associate Director, Institutional Relations 

trisha.taneja@sustainalytics.com 

catalina.secreteanu@sustainalytics.com 

(+1) 647-317-3695  

 
 

Vikram Puppala  

(+61) 2 8015 5651  
  

Vikram Puppala  

Manager,  

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Table of Contents 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

1. 

Introduction 

2.  Overview of Issuer 

3  Framework Overview 

3.1 Use of Proceeds 
3.2 Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
3.3 Management of Proceeds 
3.4 Reporting 

4  Sustainalytics’ Opinion 

Impact of Use of Proceeds 
Conclusion 

ANNEXES 

Annex 1: Sustainalytics’ Controversy Assessment Methodology 
Annex 2: Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

1 

3 

3 

4 
4 
7 
7 
8 

10 
10 
11 

12 
12 
13 

20 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

1. INTRODUCTION 
 
QBE  Insurance  Group  (QBE),  an  Australian  general insurance  and  reinsurance company,  is  planning  to 
issue multiple green bonds (QBE Green Bonds) to finance / refinance its investment in a portfolio of green 
bonds.  The  company  has  engaged  Sustainalytics  to  provide  a  second  opinion  on  QBE’s  Green  Bond 
Framework and on the bond’s environmental credentials. As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics held 
conversations with relevant  internal stakeholders  to understand the use of proceeds, management of 
proceeds, and reporting aspects of QBE’s Green Bond, as well as its sustainability strategy. Sustainalytics 
also reviewed relevant public and internal documents from the company. This document contains two 
sections: Framework Overview – a summary of QBE’s Green Bond framework; and Sustainalytics’ Opinion 
– an opinion on the framework. 
 
2. OVERVIEW OF ISSUER 
 
QBE Insurance Group Limited underwrites general insurance and reinsurance risks worldwide. It operates 
through  North  American  Operations,  European  Operations,  Australian  &  New  Zealand  Operations, 
Emerging Markets, and Equator Re segments. The company offers commercial and domestic property, 
motor and motor casualty, agriculture, public/product liability, workers’ compensation, marine energy 
and  aviation,  professional  indemnity,  financial  and  credit,  accident  and  health,  and  other  insurance 
products. It also manages Lloyd’s syndicates. The company was founded in 1886 and is headquartered in 
Sydney, Australia. 
 
On its website, QBE states that it not only follows environmental, social and governance (ESG) standards 
across a range of jurisdictions, but also believe its responsibilities extend beyond compliance1 As part of 
its commitment to sustainability, in 2015, QBE became a signatory to the United Nations Environment 
Programme  Finance  Initiative:  Principles  for  Sustainable  Insurance  (UNEP:  PSI).  QBE  discloses  how  its 
overall strategies and ESG initiatives are designed to adhere to the 4 principles set by the PSI2.  
 
In  2016,  QBE  launched  its  Premiums4Good  program,  which  offers  customers  a  choice  to  direct  a 
proportion of their premium to investment in securities that have an additional social or environmental 
objective. Examples of these investments include Social Impact Bonds, green bonds and investments into 
infrastructure projects with environmental benefits3.  
 
  
 

 

 
1 Corporate Website, https://www.group.qbe.com/corporate-governance/sustainability-report 
2 QBE Insurance Group Limited, Sustainability Review, 2016, accessed from 
https://www.group.qbe.com/sites/default/files/Default%20Media/QBE%202015%20Sustainability%20Report.pdf 
3 Corporate Website, https://www.qbe.com.au/campaigns/premiums4good 

 
 

3 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

3  FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 

 

For this green bond issued by QBE a framework has been created that follows the four key pillars of the 
Green Bond Principles (“GBP”): 

•  Use of Proceeds 
•  Selection Process 
•  Management of Proceeds 
•  Reporting 

 
 
3.1 Use of Proceeds 
The proceeds of the QBE Green Bond(s) will be allocated towards  financing / refinancing investment in 
its  green  bond  portfolio.  The  portfolio may  invest  in  labelled  green  bonds that  are  eligible  as  per the 
criteria defined below. In addition to defining eligibility criteria for the framework, QBE has committed 
that where green bond review and evaluation has been completed and the allocation of proceeds has 
been determined at time of issuance, it will disclose the specific projects funded through bond proceeds, 
and the relevant eligibility criteria the funded projects will fall under, on issuance of each QBE Green Bond. 
 
Eligibility Criteria 

1.  The green bond is certified under the Climate Bonds Standard OR has been assessed to be in 

compliance with the Green Bond Principles through a second-party opinion.  
 
 AND 
 

2.  The green bond finances/refinances projects or activities that meet one or a combination of the 

following thematic eligibility criteria. 

 
Thematic Eligibility Criteria 
1.  RENEWABLE ENERGY  

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

Development, construction, or operation of wind farms, solar farms, or hydropower 
projects.  

Development,  construction  or  operation  of  manufacturing  facilities  dedicated  to 
production  of  renewable  energy  technologies  and  equipment,  or  components  of 
equipment,  including  solar  panels,  wind  turbines,  storage  technology,  or  other 
equipment produced specifically for generating renewable energy. 
 
Transmission systems or other infrastructure (including information, communication and 
technology  infrastructure,  storage  facilities,  etc.)  that  facilitates  the  integration  of 
renewable electricity into the grid. 

 

4 

 

 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

2.  ENERGY EFFICIENCY 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

 

Installation of products or services that increase the energy efficiency of industrial 
processes 
 
Industrial/utility energy-efficiency improvements involving changes in processes, 
reduction of heat losses and/or increased waste heat recovery. This includes the 
installation of cogeneration plants. 
 
Development or manufacture of energy efficiency technologies and products such as 
efficient appliances, lighting, etc. 
 

3.  GREEN BUILDINGS 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

Development or construction of buildings that meet sustainability standards (equivalent 
to LEED Gold or higher).  
 
Retrofits of existing buildings such as architectural changes that enable a reduction in 
energy consumption. 

 

Energy-efficiency improvements through the installation of more efficient insulation, 
lighting, appliances, waste heat recovery systems and/or other equipment. 

Development and manufacture of products and services that increase energy efficiency 
in residential, commercial and other buildings, including energy efficient lighting, 
insulation, efficient heating, ventilation and air conditioning equipment, and integrated 
buildings control systems. 
 

4.  LOW CARBON TRANSPORTATION 

i. 

ii. 

Development,  manufacture  and/or  distribution  of  technologies  and  equipment  to 
increase  the  sustainability  (through  improved  energy/fuel  efficiency  or  switching  to 
electricity) of auto, truck, train, marine and aerospace transportation.  
 
Development and operation of sustainable public/mass transportation systems and/or 
of equipment for such systems (including most rail and Bus Rapid Transit that meets the 
BRT standard). 
 

5.  SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY 

i. 

ii. 

Forest management activities that comply with international standards for sustainable 
forestry such as those of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). 
 
Reforestation of previously forested land. 

iii. 

Afforestation (plantations) of non-forested land. 

5 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

 

6.  WATER EFFICIENCY  

i. 

ii. 

Development/construction of infrastructure designed to conserve water resources 
and/or increase the efficiency of water use. 
 
Development, manufacture and/or installation of technologies designed to increase 
reuse and to improve the efficiency of water use by end users. 
 

7.  WASTE MANAGEMENT  

i. 

ii. 

Development, manufacture and/or installation of technology and/or equipment that 
make waste management more sustainable (e.g. waste-to-energy systems, composters, 
and anaerobic digesters. 
 
Development and/or installation of technology or equipment that increases a 
company's resource efficiency and/or reduces its waste production. 

8.  POLLUTION CONTROL 

i. 

ii. 

Development, manufacture, and/or installation of products and services that prevent or 
reduce the pollution of air, water or land caused by pollutants such as sulphur dioxide, 
nitrous oxide, fluorocarbons, mercury, particulates, and carbon monoxide. 
 
Projects or equipment that reduce non-energy-related GHG emissions that result from 
industrial processes (e.g. cement, chemical industries). 

 

 

Exclusionary Criteria 
QBE has developed a list of exclusionary criteria for the proceeds of the QBE Green Bond. QBE commits 
itself  to  not  knowingly  be  involved  in  financing  any  of  the  following  projects/activities  through  the 
proceeds of the QBE Green Bond(s): 
 

1.  Manufacture or wholesale retail of alcoholic beverages  
2.  Manufacture or wholesale retail of tobacco products 
3.  Ownership or operation of gambling enterprises 
4.  Production or distribution of adult entertainment materials 
5.  Manufacture or retail sale and distribution of weapons and small arms  
6.  Transportation of live cattle 
7.  Whaling 
8.  Predatory lending activities 
9.  Production or refining of palm oil 
10. Extraction or refining of fossil fuels  
11. Large scale hydro projects (i.e. projects that generate greater than 20 MW of electricity) 
12. Technology and equipment for large scale hydro projects 
13. Transmission infrastructure and systems where 25% or more of electricity transmitted to the 

grid is fossil-fuel-generated 

 
 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

14. Technologies that increase the energy efficiency of fossil fuel production and/or distribution 
15. Systems and infrastructure used primarily for the transportation of fossil fuels 
16. Agricultural or afforestation operations located on land designated as primary forest,  high 

conservation value areas, or legally preserved areas 

17. Green  bond  issuers  that  are  involved  in  major  environmental,  social  or  governance 
controversies  (Category  5  controversies  ),  as  assessed  by  Sustainalytics.  See  Annex  1  for 
details on Sustainalytics’ controversy assessment methodology. 

 

3.2 Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
QBE’s Investment Team identifies bonds that meet the  company’s investment risk/return criteria, and 
makes  the  investment  in  the  bond.  If  the  investment  is  a  green  bond,  the  Manager,  Responsible 
Investments (MRI) is notified. The MRI then assesses if the green bond meets the eligibility criteria defined 
in the framework, and if proceeds from the QBE Green Bond(s) can be allocated to refinancing the green 
bond investment(s).  
 
In addition to assessing each green bond investment’s compliance with the framework eligibility criteria, 
QBE also: 
  

(i) 
(ii) 

assesses each green bond investment’s eligibility,  
classifies each green bond investment as “High”4 or “Moderate5” impact.  
 

Every labelled green bond is presented by the MRI to QBE’s Classification of Social Investments Committee 
(COSI Co.) The committee reviews and classifies these green bond investments as meeting the “additional 
social or environmental objective,”. COSI Co. also classifies these green bond investments as “High” or 
“Moderate” impact. The COSI Co. is also responsible for annually monitoring its green bond investment 
to review its classification and monitor its continued suitability.  
 
3.3 Management of Proceeds  
QBE will track the Use of Proceeds of its Green Bond(s) via its internal information systems. Each QBE 
Green Bond will be booked under an earmarked position which is set up for each Green Bond specifically 
in the appropriate internal system. QBE will establish a register, recording each specific acquired green 
bond ID allocated as Use of Proceeds for each Green Bond by a unique position identifier. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
4 High Impact investments are those with an explicit dual purpose of delivering a financial return, and a measurable or verifiable social and/or 
environmental return.  
5 Moderate impact investments are those which partially or wholly provide, support, or fund socially and/or environmentally beneficial 
activities.  

7 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

3.4 Reporting  
Allocation and Impact Reporting 
The QBE Green Bond issuing entity will provide a Green Progress Report on an annual basis including: 
 

(i)  Aggregate amounts of funds allocated to each of the Thematic Eligibility Criteria (Section 3.1) 

together with a description of the types of projects being financed / refinanced; 

(ii)  The remaining balance of unallocated Green Bond proceeds at the reporting period end; and, 
(iii) Confirmation that the Use of Proceeds of the Green Bond (s) issued conforms with the QBE 

Green Bond Framework. 

 
QBE recognises investors’ preference for enhanced information on Use of Proceeds. Where possible QBE 
will provide further information and examples of green bonds financed / refinanced by a QBE Green Bond. 
 
The QBE issuing entity will prepare the report and the ESG Committee will review and approve each Green 
Progress Report. Each Green Progress Report will be produced to a 31 December reporting date and will 
be published by the 31 March of the following year on the QBE Investor Relations webpage, found through 
www.qbe.com  
 
QBE  has  also  committed  that  where  possible,  it  will  use  the  impact  metrics  described  in  Table  1  as 
guidance for its impact reporting. Given that QBE is dependent on regular impact reporting from invested 
green bonds, QBE will include impact reporting as a part of its annual Green Bond report when the data 
from investees is available in a timely manner.  
 
Table 1: Suggested KPIs for QBE impact reporting 

Eligible Sector 
Renewable energy 

Energy efficiency 

Green buildings 

Low carbon transportation 
Sustainable forestry  

Water efficiency 
Waste Management 

Example Impact Metric 

•  kWh of power generated from renewable energy 
•  Tonnes of CO2 equivalent avoided 
•  Energy saved per year (kWh/year) 
•  Percentage energy efficiency achieved 
•  Energy consumption reduced per square foot 
• 

List of eligible buildings that received third party verified 
green building certification  

•  GHG emissions savings/tonnes of CO2 equivalent avoided 
•  CO2 emissions avoided through planted forests 
•  Total land area under sustainably certified forests 
•  Amount of water saved 
•  Annual amount of hazardous waste reduced/avoided  
•  Estimate of annual GHG emissions reduced/avoided (tCO2e) 

[for waste-energy technologies] 

Pollution control 

•  Estimate of equipment's annual potential to reduce/avoid 

the emission or release of a given pollutant 

 
 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Compliance Review 
In addition, QBE has committed to undertaking an annual compliance review of funded companies with 
Sustainalytics. Sustainalytics will review all companies/borrowers to which proceeds have been allocated, 
in order to determine whether they meet the eligibility criteria in the framework. As a part of the annual 
compliance review, Sustainalytics will also undertake a review and analysis of companies’ involvement in 
controversies. Sustainalytics will provide a letter stating the results of the compliance review, which QBE 
may disclose publicly on its website. The compliance review will take place annually throughout the term 
of the bond. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

4  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
 
Well positioned to issue a Green Bond  
In  its  2015  sustainability  report,  QBE  states  a  commitment  to  managing  Environmental,  Social,  or 
Governance (ESG)  risks  in an integrated manner, across its underwriting and investment management 
business activities.6 QBE states a recognition of how environmental risks can affect claim activity, and also 
has a responsible investment team that considers ESG issues in its investment decisions. Moreover, QBE 
is signatory to industry initiatives that promote responsible finance such as the UN PRI and UNEP FI. 
 
One  way  in  which  QBE  acts  on  its  stated  commitment  to  responsible  finance  is  through  its 
Premiums4Good program, which allows policyholders (at no cost or risk to them) to direct a proportion 
of their premiums to be invested directly into projects that create environmental or social impacts. This 
initiative  is  linked  to QBE’s  core  business  products  and  activities. Proceeds  from  the  QBE  Green  Bond 
Framework  will  directly  support  and  further  develop  QBE’s  overall  commitment  to  responsible 
investment.  
 
Given QBE’s commitment to responsible finance, as signalled by its participation in industry initiatives, 
and  the  contribution  of  its  Green  Bond  Framework,  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  QBE  is  well 
positioned  to  issue  its  Green  Bond(s).  Sustainalytics  is  also  of  the  opinion  that  QBE’s  Green  Bond 
Framework aligns with the company’s strategic priorities in the area of responsible finance.  
 
Impact of Use of Proceeds 
The  Green  Bond  Principles  (GBP)  focus  on  direct  investment  in  projects  that  provide  environmental 
benefits. Proceeds from the QBE Green Bond(s) will not be used to finance green projects directly but will 
instead  be  used  to  finance/refinance  investment  in  securities  (other  green  bonds)  that  have  positive 
environmental impacts. Nonetheless, Sustainalytics believes that QBE’s green bonds will have a positive 
impact  in  that  it  will  channel  capital  indirectly  toward  projects  and  activities  that  have  environmental 
benefits. In this sense, the QBE Green Bond(s) are aligned with the Green Bond Principles.  
 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that QBE’s Green Bond Framework provides assurance that proceeds will 
be invested only in green bonds that have been certified under the Climate Bonds Standard or that have 
received  a  positive  second-party  opinion.  Such  reviews  provide  due  diligence  on  the  environmental 
integrity of projects and assurance that a green bond is credible. Additionally, QBE’s thematic eligibility 
criteria align with widely accepted definitions of what qualifies as a green bond; the criteria are recognized 
by the GBP and Climate Bonds Initiative as eligible green project categories. This ensures that the green 
bonds  selected  for  investment  in QBE’s  green  bond  portfolio  are  deploying  additional  capital  towards 
projects that benefit the environment.  
 
Sustainalytics  also  believes  that  QBE’s  Green  Bond  Framework  may  provide  indirect  positive  outcome 
within  the  green  bond  market  by  encouraging  issuers  to  report  thoroughly  and  regularly  on  impacts 
resulting from their investments in green bond projects. Given that QBE intends to report on impacts of 

 
6 QBE Sustainability Report: https://qbe2015.qreports.com.au/xresources/downloads/2015/QBE_AR15_sustainability.pdf  

10 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

its green bond portfolio, this approach may help signal to green bond issuers the importance of impact 
reporting.   
 
Alignment with the Green Bond Principles 2016 
Sustainalytics  has  determined  that  the  QBE  Green  Bond  Framework  aligns  to  the  four  pillars  of  the 
International Capital Markets Association (ICMA) Green Bond Principles 2016. For detailed information 
please refer to Annex 2: Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form. 
 
Conclusion 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that QBE’s Green Bond Framework is transparent, robust, and aligns with 
the GBP 2016. Proceeds from this green bond will contribute to several global sustainability priorities, as 
outlined in the SDGs, and will contribute to mitigating climate change. 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 

11 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

ANNEXES 
 
Annex 1: Sustainalytics’ Controversy Assessment Methodology 
 
Controversies are an assessment of a company’s past involvement in incidents that had a negative impact 
on  stakeholders,  and  that  pose  outstanding  risks  to  the  company.  Sustainalytics  analyses  companies’ 
involvement in controversies based on several factors, including impact of the incident, recurrence and 
pattern  of  incidence,  company  response,  and  managerial  responsibility.  After  analysis,  companies’ 
involvement in controversies is classified on a hurricane scale of 1 to 5. Controversies are assessed as 
Category 1 if they have a low impact on the environment and society, and pose negligible risks to the 
company. Controversies are assessed as Category 5 if they have a severe impact on the environment and 
society, and pose a serious risk to the company. Category 5 represents the most severe corporate conduct.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

12 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Disclaimer 

All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 

19 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics  is  an  independent  ESG  and  corporate  governance  research,  ratings  and  analysis  firm 
supporting  investors  around  the  world  with  the  development  and  implementation  of  responsible 
investment  strategies. With 13 offices globally, Sustainalytics partners with institutional investors who 
integrate  environmental,  social  and  governance  information  and  assessments  into  their  investment 
processes.  Today,  the  firm  has  more  than  300  staff  members,  including  170  analysts  with  varied 
multidisciplinary  expertise  of  more  than  40  sectors.  Through  the  IRRI  survey,  investors  selected 
Sustainalytics as the best independent responsible investment research firm for three consecutive years, 
2012 through 2014 and in 2015, Sustainalytics was named among the top three firms for both ESG and 
Corporate Governance research. The firm was also named the Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
Global Capital in 2015. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com  
 
Copyright © 2017 Sustainalytics. All rights reserved. 
 
The  intellectual  property  rights  to  this  publication/report  and  the  information  contained  herein  are  vested  exclusively  in 
Sustainalytics and/or its suppliers. No part of this publication/report may be reproduced, used, disseminated, modified, published 
or  otherwise  furnished  in  any  manner  without  the  express  written  consent  of  Sustainalytics.  Nothing  contained  in  this 
publication/report shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or implied, regarding the advisability to 
invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or portfolios. The performance represented herein is historical; past 
performance is not a reliable indicator of future results and results and the information provided in this brochure is not intended 
to be relied upon as, nor to be a substitute for specific professional advice and in particular financial advice. The information on 
which this publication/report is based on reflects the situation as on the date of its elaboration. Such information has – fully or 
partially  –  been  derived  from  third  parties  and  is  therefore  subject  to  continuous  modification.  Sustainalytics  observes  the 
greatest possible care in using information but cannot guarantee that information contained herein is accurate and/or complete 
and no rights can be derived from it. The information is provided “as is” and, therefore Sustainalytics assumes no responsibility 
for  errors  or  omissions.  Sustainalytics  nor  its  suppliers  accept  any  liability  for  damage  arising  from  the  use  of  this 
publication/report or information contained herein in any manner whatsoever. 
 
Sustainalytics 
info@sustainalytics.com  
www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 

 

 
 

20 

