 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 RENOVATE AMERICA  

GREEN BOND 

 

HERO GREEN BOND FRAMEWORK 

 

 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY 

 
 
 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

April 14th, 2017 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 

Trisha Taneja (Toronto) 
Advisor, Advisory Services 
trisha.taneja@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 647 317 3695 

Charlotte Peyraud (New York) 
Senior Advisor, Institutional Relations 
charlotte.peyraud@sustainalytics.com  
(+1) 646 518 0184 
 
 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

1. 

Introduction 

2.  Overview of Issuer 

3.  Framework overview 
3.1  Use of Proceeds 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
3.3  Management of Proceeds 
3.4  Reporting 

4. Sustainalytics’ Opinion 

Conclusion 

Appendices 

Appendix 1 – HERO Program Residential Eligible Product List 
Appendix 2 –Impact Statistics for HERO Funding Notes 2017-1 
Appendix 3: Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

1 

3 

3 

5 
5 
5 
7 
7 

9 
10 

11 
11 
21 
22 

28 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

 

1. INTRODUCTION 
 
Renovate America, Inc. (“Renovate America”) developed a green bond framework under which it intends to issue 
multiple series of green notes (the “Senior Notes,” “Bonds” or “HERO Green Bonds”) through its ABS platform 
called Home Energy Renovation Opportunity (“HERO”) Funding. The Senior Notes are secured by a pool of limited 
obligation improvement bonds called Property Assessed Clean Energy (“PACE”) bonds, the proceeds of which are 
used to finance energy efficiency, renewable energy and water conservation projects and products. The HERO 
Green  Bond  Framework  is  consistent  with  the  current  Green  Bond  Principles  2016  (“GBP”)  as  held  by  the 
International Capital Market Association (“ICMA”). 
 
Renovate  America  has  engaged  Sustainalytics  to  provide  a  second-party  opinion  on  the  HERO  Green  Bond 
Framework  and  the  framework’s  environmental  credentials.  As  a  part  of  this  engagement,  Sustainalytics 
reviewed relevant public and internal documents, and held conversations with various members of Renovate 
America’s management team to understand the environmental impact of the planned use of proceeds for the 
Bonds project selection process based on established eligibility criteria and transparency of the management of 
issued Green Bonds. This document contains two sections: (1) Framework Overview – summary of the Renovate 
America HERO Green Bond Framework, and (2) Sustainalytics’ Opinion – an opinion on the framework.  
 
 
2. OVERVIEW OF ISSUER 
 
Overview 
Renovate America is a technology-focused finance company headquartered in San Diego, California, with over 
650 full-time employees. Founded in 2009, it partners with local governments to administer the financing process 
for home improvement projects involving installation of energy efficiency, renewable energy and water efficiency 
products through its HERO program. The HERO program received a Climate Leadership Certificate for Innovative 
Partnerships by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in March 2016. The HERO program operates 
under California’s PACE legislation, which allows homeowners to finance renewable energy, energy efficiency 
and water efficiency renovations through voluntary property tax assessments. Renovate America is retained by 
local municipalities to establish and administer their PACE programs. As of March 2017, Renovate America has 
financed over 2.27 billion USD in PACE funding for 93,000 residential property owners. 
 
The PACE Process 
The HERO program has been providing homeowners with the opportunity to finance solar, energy and water 
efficiency  and  renewable  energy  improvements  at  no  upfront  cost.  Enabled  by  PACE  legislation,  local 
governments raise capital through issuances of limited obligation municipal bonds or PACE bonds. The proceeds 
from  these  bonds  are  administered  by  the  HERO  program  and  are  used to enable  homeowners to carry  out 
renewable energy, energy and water efficiency home improvements. The HERO program pays the contractors 
directly  for  the  installation  of  water  efficient,  energy  efficient  or  renewable  energy  generating  products  in 
consumer homes. Homeowners, through the HERO technology platform, choose both the contractors and the 
eligible products to be installed on their properties. By virtue of the PACE financing structure, homeowners do 
not  incur  upfront  payments  for  their  energy  and  water  efficient  home  improvements.  Instead,  homeowners 
repay  the  financing  for  their  green  renovations  through  property  tax  payments.  Municipalities  collect  this 

3 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

repayment as a part of their annual tax collection process, and remit these tax payments to PACE bondholders 
via a trustee.  In July 2016, the White House issued a statement announcing executive actions to support the 
expansion of PACE financing. The Federal Housing Administration (FHA) also issued guidance on July 19, 2016 
confirming  that  properties  with  PACE  assessments  can  be  purchased  and  refinanced  with  FHA  mortgage 
insurance, subject to certain requirements being met. 
 
Securitization of PACE Bonds through the Issuer 
The Notes issued by Renovate America are secured by a pool of PACE bonds. The PACE bonds in turn are secured 
by the voluntary PACE assessments levied against the homeowners’ properties. Renovate America facilitates and 
manages the origination of these PACE assessments on behalf of the PACE bond issuers.  
 
Renovate  America  has  more  than  8,000  registered  licensed  contractors  participating  in  its  HERO  program. 
Renovate  America  provides  these  contractors  with  training  programs  on  marketing  and  eligible  equipment 
criteria, access to financing and marketing data, and tracking capabilities. All registration and administration fees 
charged are split between other partners and service providers of the PACE program (i.e. municipalities, legal 
consultants, public  finance consultants etc.). Renovate  America’s principal source  of revenue  stems from the 
difference in interest rates between its provision of funds to the PACE bond issuers for their PACE programs and 
borrowing activities and origination fees. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

4 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

3. FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 
 
Renovate  America  has  developed  the  HERO  Green  Bond  Framework,  which meets  the  four  key  pillars of the 
Green Bond Principles: use of proceeds, project selection process, management of proceeds, and reporting. 
 
3.1   Use of Proceeds 
The proceeds of the Green Bonds will be or has been allocated towards home improvement projects funded 
through the HERO program that meet the following criteria. 
 
3.1.1  Eligibility Criteria 
To be eligible to be funded by the proceeds, the projects funded must fall within the following product 
categories: 
 

1.  Renewable & Alternative Energy Products  

a.  Solar Photovoltaic Systems 
b.  Solar Thermal 
c.  Advanced Energy Storage System - Electric Vehicle Charging Station 
d.  Stationary Fuel Cell Power System 

 
2.  Energy Efficiency Products 

a.  High-Efficiency Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC) 
b.  Building Envelope (Insulation, Cool Roofing, Air Sealing, etc.) 
c.  High-Efficiency Lighting 
d.  High-Efficiency Pool Equipment 
e.  High-Efficiency Water Heating 
f.  Windows, Doors, and Skylights 

 

3.  Water Efficiency Products 

Indoor Water Efficient Fixture & Fittings 

a. 
b.  Outdoor Water Efficient Landscaping 

 

Improvements that are required for the installation of product types falling into one or more of the previous 3 
categories are also eligible to be funded. 

 

3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
Renovate America selects projects for funding through Green Bond proceeds by assessing if the project falls 
under one or more of the three eligibility criteria specified above in Section 3.1.1. The project must fall under 
one or more of the three eligibility criteria to be refunded through Bond proceeds. 
 
 In addition, projects selected for refunding through Bond proceeds must also meet the following criteria: 
 

1.  The project must meet certain product specific eligibility criteria, as outlined in Appendix 1. The 

products that are used for the project must meet the product-specific eligibility criteria detail the 

 
 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

minimum product performance, installation values, and/or qualification requirements for each product 
type. 

2.  The  used  product’s  energy/water  efficiency  or  renewable  energy  generation  performance  must  be 
measurable  and  verifiable  for  its  installed  application  in  a  broad  variety  of  single-family  residential 
property settings. 

3.  The  used  product’s  energy  efficiency/water  efficiency/energy  generation  must  be  achieved  through 

4. 

broadly available, non-proprietary technology that is offered by more than one manufacturer. 
If the cost of a qualified product for a project is significantly greater than their conventional/standard 
efficiency  counterpart,  the  incremental  cost  incurred  will  be  offset  by  direct  savings  (i.e.  utility  bill 
reduction)  or  indirect  savings  (i.e.  property  value  increase,  induced  economic  impact,  etc.)  within  a 
reasonable period of time. 

 
The HERO product specific eligibility criteria (as outlined in Appendix 1) for the projects outlined above reference 
third-party efficiency program standards and certified product directories (when available) that rely on internal 
and  external  subject matter  expertise  to  generate  relevant  standards  and  eligibility  specifications.  This  third-
party reference process ensures that products have met a nationally recognized standard of efficiency and have 
submitted the necessary performance documentation in order to be listed in the directories. 
 
The third-party sources used for the HERO eligibility specifications are prioritized as follows: 
•  American National Standards Institute 
•  ASTM International 
•  Air Conditioning Heating and Refrigeration Institute 
•  Building Performance Institute 
•  California Energy Commission 
•  California Self Generation Incentive Program 
•  California Solar Initiative Program 
•  California Title 24, Section 6 Building Efficiency Standards 
•  Cool Roof Rating Council 
•  Home Ventilating Institute 
• 
•  National Fenestration Rating Council 
•  Underwriters Laboratory 
•  U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Appliance Certification Database 
•  U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) ENERGY STAR Product Directory 
•  U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) WaterSense Product Directory 
•  SoCal Water Smart Program 
•  Solar Rating and Certification Corporation 
 
Product Catalogue  
The HERO program uses a custom database (product catalogue) that aggregates product records and associated 
details (i.e. manufacturer, brand, model, performance specifications, etc.) from the third-party reference sources 
listed  above.  Aggregated  product  records  are  then  filtered  on  the  defined  eligibility  specifications  for  each 
product type and flagged as being eligible or not eligible for HERO financing. The product catalogue includes over 
1.3 million eligible product records that are available to contractors and property owners for their projects and 
is updated on a daily basis to ensure that records are consistent with the third-party product directories. 
 

International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials 

 
 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

In addition to the HERO product eligibility specifications, all product specifications and installation quality must 
meet or exceed applicable local, state, and/or federal permitting, codes, and standards.  
 
As  the  program  administrator  of  the  HERO  program,  Renovate  America  receives  applications  for  potential 
projects through contractor referrals or directly from interested homeowners. Each contractor is assessed if they 
are  licensed  and  bonded  by  the  California  Contractors  State  License  Board,  and  if  they  are  registered  with 
Renovate  America  to  participate  in  the  HERO  program.  In  this  process,  Renovate  America  ensures  that  the 
projects meet the program criteria and product specific eligibility criteria.   
 
 

3.3        Management of Proceeds  
The  Green  Bonds  are  secured  by  PACE  bonds,  which  are  in  turn  backed  by  PACE  assessments  in  the  pool. 
Renovate America, through one of its affiliates, is the sole buyer of PACE Bonds issued by the PACE bond issuers. 
The net proceeds from the issuance of the HERO Senior Notes are used to acquire PACE bonds. The purchase of 
the PACE bonds is made using the proceeds from the Senior Notes, resulting in full allocation of the proceeds to 
the PACE bonds that are backed by the PACE assessment pool. The transaction of issuing the Senior Notes and 
purchasing the PACE bonds by Renovate America (through one of its affiliates) occurs at the same time. 
 
   Reporting  
3.4 
Allocation Reporting 
As all of the initial proceeds will be allocated immediately, verification of allocation of the Green Bond proceeds 
will  be  disclosed  at  time  of  issuance  of  the  Senior  Notes  in  the  offering  memorandum  and  any  subsequent 
purchases will involve only PACE bonds that meet the PACE bonds eligibility criteria.   
 
Impact Reporting 
Renovate America utilizes a proprietary calculation model to estimate the environmental impacts of the projects 
related to PACE bonds. Renovate America reports on estimated impact in the following areas: 

  Water savings,  
  Energy savings,  
  Renewable energy generation, and  
  Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emission reductions.  

 
Renovate America calculates the estimated impact in each of these areas using proprietary forecasting models 
that are largely derived from relevant third-party sources. Each model is customized for inputs that are specific 
to  the  property  being  assessed,  taking  into  account  the  location  of  house,  the  year  built,  the  number  of 
occupants, climate zone, etc. Where applicable, Renovate America reports on both annual and life-time metrics 
of  the  installed  improvements.  The  impact  reporting  methodology,  its  original  third-party  source,  and  the 
associated metrics are listed below. 
 
Water Savings 

1.  Methodology 

Water savings estimates are reported for both indoor and outdoor water efficiency projects. This impact 
model derives primarily from methodologies used by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 
WaterSense  Program,  the  California  Department  of  Water  Resources,  and  the  California  Institute  for 
Public Policy. 

 
 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

2.  Specific Impact Metrics 

a.  Annual Water savings (gallons & bill savings) 
b.  Lifetime Water savings (gallons & bill savings) 

 
Energy Savings  

1.  Methodology 

Energy savings estimates are reported for each energy efficiency home improvement project. The impact 
model used to calculate home energy savings derives from calculation methodologies used by the U.S. 
Department of Energy (DOE).  

2.  Specific Impact Metrics 

a.  Annual kWh Savings 
b.  Annual Therm Savings 
c.  Annual Energy Savings (kWh-e & bill savings) 
d.  Lifetime Energy Savings (kWh-e & bill savings) 

 
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emission Reduction  

1.  Methodology 

GHG emission reductions are reported for both energy efficiency projects and projects that generate 
renewable  energy.  The  impact  model  used  to  calculate  GHG  emission  reduction  derives  from 
methodologies used by the U.S. EPA eGRID Power Profiler, and the GHG Equivalency Calculator. 

2.  Specific Impact Metrics 

a.  Annual Emission Reduction (Tons GHG) 
b.  Lifetime Emission Reduction (Tons GHG) 

 

Renewable Energy Generation  

1.  Methodology 

Renewable  energy  generation  estimates  are  reported  for  solar  photovoltaic  installation  projects.  The 
impact  model  used  to  calculate  renewable  energy  generation  estimates  derives  from  methodologies 
used by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory's PV Watts Calculator. 

2.  Specific Impact Metrics 

a.  Sum of Solar System Size (W) 
b.  Annual Energy Savings (kWh & bill savings) 
c.  Lifetime Energy Savings (kWh & bill savings) 

 
See Appendix 2 for figures on the estimated environmental impacts of the underlying projects funded by the 
proceeds of the HERO 2017-1 Notes.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

 
 
4. SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
 
HERO Program- an innovate program that contributes to climate change mitigation  
The HERO program is an effective way to promote the uptake of energy and water efficiency products as well as 
renewable energy-generating products in the U.S. PACE incentivizes home owners to install green products by 
financing their installation through increased home property taxes, payable over an extended time frame. Hence, 
homeowners do not have to pay for these energy efficiency renovations upfront, and energy savings often offset 
associated costs. 
 
Renovate America, as a PACE program administrator, offers homeowners financing for the green investments 
which are paid back through additional property taxes. In addition, the HERO program simplifies installation of 
these green improvements by offering homeowners an innovative technology platform where the homeowners 
can  select  green  improvements  products  offered  at  fair  market  value,  select  contractors  (usually  local),  and 
benefit from strong consumer protection mechanisms. By leveraging the PACE program, Renovate America, with 
its  HERO  program,  is  promoting  and  helping  home  owners  install  green  projects  and  improve  home  energy 
efficiency. 
 
Use of credible third party standards 
The  HERO  program  bases  its  products’  eligibility on  two  sets  of  criteria—HERO program-specific  criteria,  and 
product-specific criteria. The product-specific criteria are based on credible third-party efficiency standards and 
certified product directories.  The HERO program ensures compliance to the eligibility criteria through an internal 
review process for product selection.  
 
Transparent collection and reporting of impact data 
Renovate  America  collects  and  documents  performance  on  estimated  impact  metrics  for  each  PACE 
assessment/product  installation.  Sustainalytics  has  reviewed  Renovate  America’s  reporting  file,  and  is  of  the 
opinion that the issuer has a robust system in place to transparently disclose estimated impacts related to every 
Bond  issued  under  this  framework.  Impact  reporting  for  the  first  issuance  under  the  HERO  Green  Bond 
Framework (Series 2017-1) is detailed in Appendix 2.  
 
Advancing the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals  
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were set in September 2015 through a multi-stakeholder partnership, 
and form an agenda for achieving sustainable development by the year 2030. These goals are widely considered 
to be the next step to the Millennium Development Goals (MDG), which were time-bound to 2015. Unlike the 
MDG’s, the SDGs emphasize the elimination of inequality and disparity in opportunity globally, in both developed 
and developing countries. In particular, SDG 7 ‘Affordable and Clean Energy’ has targets associated with doubling 
the rate of energy efficiency, increasing substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix, 
and  ensuring  universal  access  to  affordable,  reliable,  and  modern  energy  services.  Through  incentivizing 
homeowners  to  install  energy  efficient  and  renewable  energy  generating  products,  Renovate  America  is 
contributing to all the above mentioned targets, and to the advancement of the SDGs.  
 
Alignment with Green Bond Principles 2016  

 
 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Sustainalytics has determined that Renovate America’s HERO Green Bond Framework aligns with the four pillars 
of  the  Green  Bond  Principles  2016.  For  detailed  information  please  refer  to  the  Green  Bond/Green  Bond 
Programme External Review Form at the end of this document. 
 
 
Conclusion 
All  proceeds  from  all  Green  Bonds  issued  under  the HERO  Green  Bond  Framework  will  be  allocated  towards 
residential home improvements in the areas of renewable energy, energy efficiency and water efficiency through 
the purchase of PACE bonds. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the framework is aligned with the four pillars of 
the ICMA Green Bond Principles 2016. The criteria that are used for projects that are refinanced by the Green 
Bonds  are comprehensive and the  selection processes are diligent.  Renovate  America’s rigorous approach to 
quantifying and reporting estimated impact provides transparency to investors regarding the impact of projects 
funded  by  the  Green  Bond.  Sustainalytics  is of  the opinion  that  the  HERO  Green  Bond  Framework  is  robust, 
credible and effective in supporting energy efficiency projects for residential properties in the U.S. 
 

 
 

10 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

APPENDICES 
Appendix 1 – HERO Program Residential Eligible Product List   

 
 

 

11 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

 
 

 
 

 

12 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

 
 
 

 
 

 

13 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 

14 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

 
 
 

 
 

 

15 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

 
 
 

 
 

 

16 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

 
 
 

 
 

 

17 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

 
 

 
 

 

18 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

 
 

 
 

 

19 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

 
 
 

 
 

 

20 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Appendix 2 –Impact Statistics for HERO Funding Notes 2017-1  
 
As is explained in Section 3.4 on Impact Reporting, Renovate America utilizes proprietary forecasting models to 
estimate the environmental impacts of the projects related to PACE Bonds. The following tables show 
environmental impact figures which are estimated from the projects funded by the first issuance under this 
framework (series 2017-1).  
 

Impact Statistics HERO Funding Notes 2017-1  

Environmental Impact 

Impact Metrics 

Annual Water Savings (Gal) 

Lifetime Water Savings (Gal) 

Annual Water Bill Savings (USD) 

Lifetime Water Bill Savings (USD) 

Annual kWh Savings 

Annual Therm Savings 

Annual Energy Savings (kWh-e) 

Impact Figures 

62,443,524 

1,092,405,540 

281,291 

11,040,110 

27,473,655 

1,078,389 

59,081,249 

Lifetime Energy Savings (kWh-e) 

1,060,247,432 

Annual Energy Bill Savings (USD) 

Lifetime Energy Bill Savings (USD) 

Annual Emission Reduction (Tons) 

Lifetime Emission Reduction (Tons) 

7,861,795 

284,336,088 

15,347 

280,487 

21 

Water Savings 
 
 
 

Energy Savings 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emission  
Reduction 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics is an independent ESG and corporate governance research, ratings and analysis firm supporting 
investors  around  the  world  with  the  development  and  implementation  of  responsible  investment  strategies. 
With 13 offices globally, Sustainalytics partners with institutional investors who integrate environmental, social 
and governance information and assessments into their investment processes. Today, the firm has more than 
300  staff  members,  including  170  analysts  with  varied  multidisciplinary  expertise  of  more  than  40  sectors. 
Through  the  IRRI  survey,  investors  selected  Sustainalytics  as  the  best  independent  responsible  investment 
research firm for three consecutive years, 2012 through 2014 and in 2015, Sustainalytics was named among the 
top three firms for both ESG and Corporate Governance research. The firm was also named the Best SRI or Green 
Bond Research Firm by Global Capital in 2015. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com  
 
Sustainalytics 
info@sustainalytics.com  
www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

28 

