 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 RENOVATE AMERICA  
GREEN USE OF PROCEEDS 

SECURITIZED BOND 

HERO FUNDING NOTES, SERIES 2016-4 

 

 

 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY 

 
 
 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

November 28th, 2016 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 

Trisha Taneja (Toronto) 
Advisor, Advisory Services 
trisha.taneja@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 647 317 3695 

Charlotte Peyraud (New York) 
Senior Advisor, Institutional Relations 
charlotte.peyraud@sustainalytics.com  
(+1) 646 518 0184 
 
 

 
 

Vikram Puppala  

© Sustainalytics 2016 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

1.  Preface 

2. 

Introduction 

3.  Framework overview 
3.1  Use of Proceeds 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
3.3  Management of Proceeds 
3.4  Reporting 

4. Sustainalytics’ Opinion 

Conclusion 
List of Appendices 

Appendices 

Appendix 1 – HERO Program Residential Eligible Product List 
Appendix 2 –Impact Statistics for HERO Funding Notes 2016-4 

Documents Reviewed 

Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

1 

3 

3 

5 
5 
7 
7 
8 

10 
11 
11 

12 
12 
22 

23 

24 

30 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

1. PREFACE 
Renovate America, Inc. intends to issue a series of notes as Green Bonds (also known as Green Use of Proceeds 
Securitized  Bond)  under  its  funding  program  called  Home  Energy  Renovation  Opportunity  (“HERO”)  Funding 
2016-4 (the “Notes”). Renovate America retained Sustainalytics to review the structure of the issuance and to 
provide an opinion on the alignment of the Notes with the Green Bond Principles 2016 (“GBP”) issued by the 
International Capital Market  Association (the  “ICMA”).  The Notes are secured by a pool of limited obligation 
improvement bonds called Property Assessed Clean Energy (“PACE”) bonds, the proceeds of which are used to 
finance energy efficiency, renewable energy and water conservation projects and products.  
 
Sustainalytics  engaged  members  of  Renovate  America’s  management  team  to  understand  the  sustainability 
impact  of  the  issuance  and  reviewed  the  use  of  proceeds  for  the  issuance  of  the  Notes.  Sustainalytics  also 
reviewed  public  and  internal  documents  from  Renovate  America  specifically  relevant  to  the  Notes.  This 
document  contains  two  sections:  Framework  Overview  –  summary  of  the  Renovate  America  Green  Use  of 
Proceeds Securitized Bond framework; and Sustainalytics’ Opinion – an opinion on Renovate America’s HERO 
Funding Notes, Series 2016-4 issuance. 
  
2. INTRODUCTION 
Overview 
Renovate America is a technology-focused finance company headquartered in San Diego, California, with over 
650 full-time employees. Founded in 2009, it partners with local governments to administer financing for home 
improvement projects involving installation of energy efficiency, renewable energy and water efficiency products 
through  its  Home  Energy  Renovation  Opportunity  (“HERO”)  program.  The  HERO  Program  received  a  Climate 
Leadership Certificate for Innovative Partnerships by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in March 
2016.  The  HERO  program  operates  under  California’s  PACE  legislation,  which  allows  homeowners  to  finance 
renewable  energy,  energy  efficiency  and  water  efficiency  renovations  through  voluntary  property  tax 
assessments.  Renovate  America  is  retained  by  local  municipalities  to  establish  and  administer  their  PACE 
programs.  As  of  November  2016,  Renovate  has  financed  over  1.99  billion  USD  in  PACE  funding  for  83,000 
residential property owners. 
 
The PACE Process 
Since 2009, the HERO Program has been providing homeowners with the opportunity to finance solar, energy 
and water efficiency and renewable energy improvements at no upfront cost. Enabled by PACE legislation, local 
governments raise capital through issuances of limited obligation municipal bonds or PACE bonds. The proceeds 
from  these  bonds  are  administered  by  the  HERO  program  and  are  used to enable  homeowners to carry  out 
renewable energy, energy and water efficiency home improvements. The HERO program pays the contractors 
directly  for  the  installation  of  water  efficient,  energy  efficient  or  renewable  energy  generating  products  in 
consumer homes. Homeowners, through the HERO technology platform, choose both the contractors and the 
eligible products to be installed on their properties. By virtue of the PACE financing structure, homeowners do 
not  incur  upfront  payments  for  their  energy  and  water  efficient  home  improvements.  Instead,  homeowners 
repay  the  financing  for  their  green  renovations  through  property  tax  payments.  Municipalities  collect  this 
repayment as a part of their annual tax collection process, and remit these tax payments to PACE bondholders 
via a trustee.  In July 2016, the White House issued a statement announcing executive actions to support the 
expansion of PACE financing. The Federal Housing Administration (FHA) also issued guidance on July 19, 2016 
confirming  that  properties  with  PACE  assessments  can  be  purchased  and  refinanced  with  FHA  mortgage 
insurance, subject to certain requirements being met. 

3 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

 
Securitization of PACE Bonds through the Issuer 
The Notes issued by Renovate America through HERO Funding 2016-4 are secured by a pool of PACE bonds. The 
PACE  bonds  in  turn  are  secured  by  the  property  tax  assessments  or  PACE  assessments  levied  against  the 
homeowners’ properties. Renovate America is responsible for originating these PACE assessments.  
 
Renovate  America  has  more  than  8,000  registered  licensed  contractors  participating  in  its  HERO  program. 
Renovate  America  provides  these  contractors  with  training  programs  on  marketing  and  eligible  equipment 
criteria, access to financing and marketing data, and tracking capabilities. All registration and administration fees 
charged are split between other partners and service providers of the PACE program (i.e. municipalities, legal 
consultants, public  finance consultants etc.). Renovate  America’s principal source  of revenue  stems from the 
difference in interest rates between its provision of funds to the issuers for their PACE programs and borrowing 
activities, and origination fees. 
 
HERO 2016-4 NOTES  
 
The  Notes  are  initially  secured  by  139  limited  obligation  improvement  bonds  (each,  a  “PACE  Bond”,  and 
collectively  the  “PACE  Bond  Portfolio”)  issued  by  LA  County,  Western  Riverside  Council  of  Governments 
(“WRCOG”) and San Bernardino Associated Governments (“SANBAG”).  The initial PACE Bond Portfolio is secured 
by  9,008  PACE  assessments levied against 8697  residential properties  (“PACE Assessments”). The  transaction 
benefits from credit enhancement in the form of excess spread, overcollateralization, and a liquidity reserve. 
 
The proceeds from the issuance of the Notes will be used by the Issuer to acquire the Initial PACE Bonds from 
the Transferor, to pay certain expenses incurred in connection with the issuance of the Class A Notes and the 
Residual  Certificate,  and  for  deposit  into  the  Prefunding  Account.  97,690,200  USD  of  the  proceeds  will  be 
deposited in a pre-funding account, which may be used to acquire up to 87,721,886 USD in subsequent PACE 
Bonds.   
 
 
Renovate  America  has  disclosed  that  the  proceeds  of  the  283,634,000  USD  HERO  2016-4  Notes  are  initially 
secured by 204,684,401.58 USD in property tax assessments.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

4 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

3. FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 
 
Renovate America’s HERO Funding Notes, Series 2016-4 issuance uses a framework that is aligned with the four 
key pillars of the Green Bond Principles (“GBP”): 

  Use of Proceeds 
  Selection Process 
  Management of Proceeds 
  Reporting 

 
3.1   Use of Proceeds 
The proceeds of the Green Use of Proceeds Securitized Bond will be or has been allocated towards home 
improvement projects funded through the HERO Program that meet the following criteria. 
 
3.1.1  Eligibility Criteria 
To be eligible to be funded by the proceeds, the projects funded must fall within the following product 
categories: 
 

1.  Renewable & Alternative Energy Products  

a.  Solar Photovoltaic Systems 
b.  Solar Thermal 
c.  Advanced Energy Storage System - Electric Vehicle Charging Station 
d.  Stationary Fuel Cell Power System 

 
2.  Energy Efficiency Products 

a.  High-Efficiency Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC) 
b.  Building Envelope (Insulation, Cool Roofing, Air Sealing, etc.) 
c.  High-Efficiency Lighting 
d.  High-Efficiency Pool Equipment 
e.  High-Efficiency Water Heating 
f.  Windows, Doors, and Skylights 

 

3.  Water Efficiency Products 

Indoor Water Efficient Fixture & Fittings 

a. 
b.  Outdoor Water Efficient Landscaping 

 

Improvements that are required for the installation of product types falling into one or more of the previous 3 
categories are also eligible to be funded. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

 

International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials 

The HERO product specific eligibility criteria (as outlined in Appendix 1) for the projects outlined above, reference 
third-party efficiency program standards and certified product directories (when available) that rely on internal 
and  external  subject matter  expertise  to  generate  relevant  standards  and  eligibility  specifications.  This  third-
party reference process ensures that products have met a nationally recognized standard of efficiency, and have 
submitted the necessary performance documentation in order to be listed in the directories. 
 
The third-party sources used for the HERO eligibility specifications are prioritized as follows: 
•  American National Standards Institute 
•  ASTM International 
•  Air Conditioning Heating and Refrigeration Institute 
•  Building Performance Institute 
•  California Energy Commission 
•  California Self Generation Incentive Program 
•  California Solar Initiative Program 
•  California Title 24, Section 6 Building Efficiency Standards 
•  Cool Roof Rating Council 
•  Home Ventilating Institute 
• 
•  National Fenestration Rating Council 
•  Underwriters Laboratory 
•  U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Appliance Certification Database 
•  U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) ENERGY STAR Product Directory 
•  U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) WaterSense Product Directory 
•  SoCal Water Smart Program 
•  Solar Rating and Certification Corporation 
 
Product Catalogue  
The HERO program uses a custom database (product catalogue) that aggregates product records and associated 
details (i.e. manufacturer, brand, model, performance specifications, etc.) from the third-party reference sources 
listed  above.  Aggregated  product  records  are  then  filtered  on  the  defined  eligibility  specifications  for  each 
product type and flagged as being eligible or not eligible for HERO financing. The product catalogue includes over 
1.3 million eligible product records that are available to contractors and property owners for their projects and 
is updated on a daily basis to ensure that records are consistent with the third-party product directories. 
 
In addition to the HERO Product Eligibility Specifications, all product specifications and installation quality must 
meet or exceed applicable local, state, and/or federal permitting, codes, and standards.  
 

3.1.2 Eligible Projects 
Any project that meets the eligibility criteria, including the new and ongoing developments of such projects, are 
eligible to be funded using the green bond proceeds. 

 

 
 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
In order to use the proceeds of the issuance, the home improvement project must meet the following eligibility 
criteria: 
 

1.  The project must fall under one or more of the three categories specified above in Section 3.1.1.  
2.  The project must meet certain product specific eligibility criteria, as outlined in Appendix 1. The 

products that are used for the project must meet the product-specific eligibility criteria detail the 
minimum product performance, installation values, and/or qualification requirements for each product 
type. 

3.  The  used  product’s  energy/water  efficiency  or  renewable  energy  generation  performance  must  be 
measurable  and  verifiable  for  its  installed  application  in  a  broad  variety  of  single-family  residential 
property settings. 

4.  The  used  product’s  energy  efficiency/water  efficiency/energy  generation  must  be  achieved  through 

5. 

broadly available, non-proprietary technology that is offered by more than one manufacturer. 
If the cost of a qualified product for a project is significantly greater than their conventional/standard 
efficiency  counterpart,  the  incremental  cost  incurred  will  be  offset  by  direct  savings  (i.e.  utility  bill 
reduction)  or  indirect  savings  (i.e.  property  value  increase,  induced  economic  impact,  etc.)  within  a 
reasonable period of time. 

6.  The projects must be funded within the 24 months prior to the issuance of the bond. 

 
As  the  program  administrator  of  the  HERO  Program,  Renovate  America  receives  applications  for  potential 
projects through contractor referrals. Each contractor must be licensed and bonded by the California Contractors 
State License Board and must be registered with Renovate America to participate in the HERO program. In this 
process, Renovate America ensures that the projects meet the program criteria and product specific eligibility 
criteria.   
 
 

3.3        Management of Proceeds  
The Notes are secured by all PACE assessments in the pool, an amount equal to or greater than the amount of 
the bond issuance. The Issuer is the buyer of PACE bonds issued by the partnering municipalities in the HERO 
Program. 185,943,800 USD of the net proceeds arising from the issuance of the Notes shall be used to repay the 
initial PACE bonds funding eligible products. The remaining 97,690,200 USD of the proceeds will be deposited in 
a pre-funding account as described below. The initial and subsequent PACE Bonds will be acquired by the Issuer 
from  HERO  Funding,  LLC  (the  “Transferor”).  The  Issuer  is  an  exempted  company  incorporated  with  limited 
liability. 
 
On or before the Closing Date, the Issuer’s ABS Note Trustee will establish and maintain in the name of the Issuer, 
in the trust for the benefit of the noteholders, an account (the “Prefunding Account”). On the Closing Date, upon 
receipt of the proceeds from the sale of the Class A Notes and the sale of the Residual Certificate, the Issuer will 
deposit in the Prefunding Account an amount equal to approximately 97,690,200 USD, which may be used to 
acquire up to 87,721,886 USD in subsequent PACE Bonds that meet the same PACE Bonds eligibility criteria.  
 
The purchase of the PACE bonds is done by using the proceeds from the Notes, resulting in full allocation of the 
proceeds to the PACE bonds that are backed by the assessment pool for the Notes.   
 

 
 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

   Reporting  
3.4 
Allocation Reporting 
As all of the initial proceeds will be allocated immediately, verification on allocation of the Green Use of Proceeds 
Securitized Bond  will be  disclosed all at once  at issuance  of the  Notes  in the offering memorandum  and any 
subsequent purchases will consist solely of PACE Bonds that meet the PACE Bonds eligibility criteria.   
 
Impact Reporting 
Renovate America utilizes a proprietary calculation model to estimate the environmental impacts of the projects 
related to PACE Bonds. Renovate America reports on estimated impact in the following areas: 

  Water savings,  
  Energy savings,  
  Renewable energy generation, and  
  Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emission reductions.  

 
Renovate America calculates the estimated impact in each of these areas using proprietary forecasting models 
that are largely derived from relevant third-party sources. Each model is customized for inputs that are specific 
to  the  property  being  assessed,  taking  into  account  the  location  of  house,  the  year  built,  the  number  of 
occupants, climate zone, etc. Where applicable, Renovate America reports on both annual and life-time metrics 
of  the  installed  improvements.  The  impact  reporting  methodology,  its  original  third-party  source,  and  the 
associated metrics are listed below, disaggregated by different variables.   
 
Water Savings 

1.  Methodology 

Water savings estimates are reported for both indoor and outdoor water efficiency projects. This impact 
model derives primarily from methodologies used by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 
WaterSense  Program,  the  California  Department  of  Water  Resources,  and  the  California  Institute  for 
Public Policy. 

2.  Specific Impact Metrics 

a.  Annual Water savings (gallons & bill savings) 
b.  Lifetime Water savings (gallons & bill savings) 

 
Energy Savings  

1.  Methodology 

Energy savings estimates are reported for each energy efficiency home improvement project. The impact 
model used to calculate home energy savings derives from calculation methodologies used by the U.S. 
Department of Energy (DOE).  

2.  Specific Impact Metrics 

a.  Annual kWh Savings 
b.  Annual Therm Savings 
c.  Annual Energy Savings (kWh-e & bill savings) 
d.  Lifetime Energy Savings (kWh-e & bill savings) 

 

 
 
 

 
 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emission Reduction  

1.  Methodology 

GHG emission reductions are reported for both energy efficiency projects and projects that  generate 
renewable  energy.  The  impact  model  used  to  calculate  GHG  emission  reduction  derives  from 
methodologies used by the U.S. EPA eGRID Power Profiler, and the GHG Equivalency Calculator. 

2.  Specific Impact Metrics 

a.  Annual Emission Reduction (Tons GHG) 
b.  Lifetime Emission Reduction (Tons GHG) 

 

Renewable Energy Generation  

1.  Methodology 

Renewable  energy  generation  estimates  are  reported  for  solar  photovoltaic  installation  projects.  The 
impact  model  used  to  calculate  renewable  energy  generation  estimates  derives  from  methodologies 
used by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory's PV Watts Calculator. 

2.  Specific Impact Metrics 

a.  Sum of Solar System Size (W) 
b.  Annual Energy Savings (kWh & bill savings) 
c.  Lifetime Energy Savings (kWh & bill savings) 

 
See  Appendix  2  for  figures  on  the  estimated  environmental  impacts  from  the  projects  funded  by  the  PACE 
Assessments underlying the Notes. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

4. SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
 
An innovative program that contributes to climate change mitigation  
The HERO program is an effective way to promote the uptake of energy and water efficiency products as well as 
renewable energy-generating products in the U.S. PACE incentivizes home owners to install green products by 
financing their installation through increased home property taxes, payable over an extended time frame. Hence, 
homeowners do not have to pay for these energy efficiency renovations upfront, and associated costs are often 
offset by energy savings. Renovate America, as a PACE program administrator, offers homeowners financing for 
the green investments which are paid back through an increase in property taxes. In addition, the HERO program 
simplifies installation of these green improvements by offering homeowners an innovative technology platform 
where the homeowners can select green improvements products offered at fair market value, select contractors 
(usually local), and take advantage of strong consumer protection mechanisms. By leveraging the PACE program, 
Renovate America, with its HERO program, is promoting and helping home owners install green projects and 
improve home energy efficiency. 
 
Use of credible third party standards 
HERO  bases  products’  eligibility  on two  sets  of  criteria—HERO  program-specific  criteria,  and  product-specific 
criteria. The product-specific criteria are based on credible third-party efficiency standards and certified product 
directories.  Furthermore, the HERO program ensures compliance to the eligibility criteria through an internal 
review process for product selection.  
 
Clear and transparent link of use of proceeds to environmental impact 
Sustainalytics has reviewed a list of all products underlying the Series 2016-4 issuance, and is confident that all 
projects underlying this issuance meet the eligibility criteria as outlined in the framework. As well, Sustainalytics 
has reviewed the resulting impact of each product installation funded through PACE assessments, and is of the 
opinion  that  Renovate  America  transparently  documents  performance  on  impact  metrics  for  each  PACE 
assessment/product installation. Given that proceeds of the Series 2016-4 issuance are directed towards product 
installations funded through PACE assessments, there is a clear and direct link to impact created from the Series 
2016-4 issuance.  
 
Advancing the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals  
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were set in September 2015 through a multi-stakeholder partnership, 
and form an agenda for achieving sustainable development by the year 2030. These goals are widely considered 
to be the next step to the Millennium Development Goals (MDG), which were time-bound to 2015. Unlike the 
MDG’s, the SDGs emphasize the elimination of inequality and disparity in opportunity globally, in both developed 
and developing countries. In particular, SDG 7 ‘Affordable and Clean Energy’ has targets associated with doubling 
the rate of energy efficiency, increasing substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix, 
and  ensuring  universal  access  to  affordable,  reliable,  and  modern  energy  services.  Through  incentivizing 
homeowners  to  install  energy  efficient  and  renewable  energy  generating  products,  Renovate  America  is 
contributing to all the above mentioned targets, and to the advancement of the SDGs.  
 
Alignment with Green Bond Principles 2016  
Sustainalytics has determined that Renovate America’s HERO Funding Notes, Series 2016-4 aligns with the four 
pillars of the Green Bond Principles 2016. For detailed information please refer to the Green Bond/Green Bond 
Programme External Review Form at the end of this document. 
 

10 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

 
Conclusion 
By  issuing  the  HERO  Funding  Notes,  Series  2016-4  as  a  Green  Use  of  Proceeds  Securitized  Bond,  Renovate 
America supports residential home improvements in the areas of renewable energy, energy efficiency and water 
efficiency by providing financing to eligible home improvement projects. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the 
issuance with current market standards and norms, including the four pillars of the ICMA Green Bond Principles 
2016. The use of proceeds, project selection, management of proceeds, and reporting are robust and credible. 
The criteria that are used for the Green Use of Proceeds Securitized Bond are comprehensive and the selection 
processes are diligent.  
 
List of Appendices 
Appendix 1- HERO Program Residential Eligible Product List 
Appendix 2- Impact Statistics for HERO Funding Notes 2016-4 
 

 
 

11 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

APPENDICES 
Appendix 1 – HERO Program Residential Eligible Product List   

 
 

 

12 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

 
 

 
 

 

13 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

 
 
 

 
 

 

14 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 

15 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

 
 
 

 
 

 

16 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

 
 
 

 
 

 

17 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

 
 
 

 
 

 

18 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

 
 

 
 

 

19 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

 
 

 
 

 

20 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

 
 
 

 
 

 

21 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Appendix 2 –Impact Statistics for HERO Funding Notes 2016-4  
 
As is explained in Section 3.4 on Impact Reporting, Renovate America utilizes proprietary forecasting models to 
estimate the environmental impacts of the projects related to PACE Bonds. The following tables show 
environmental impact figures which are estimated from the projects funded by the PACE Assessments 
underlying the notes. 
 

Impact Statistics HERO Funding Notes 2016-4  

Environmental Impact 

Impact Metrics 

Water Savings 
 
 
 

Energy Savings 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emission  
Reduction 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

Annual Water Savings (Gal) 

Lifetime Water Savings (Gal) 

Annual Water Bill Savings (USD) 

Lifetime Water Bill Savings (USD) 

Annual kWh Savings 

Annual Therm Savings 

Annual Energy Savings (kWh-e) 

Impact Figures 

73,841,653 

1,235,173,405 

332,354 

12,027,457 

27,938,031 

1,341,625 

67,193,564 

Lifetime Energy Savings (kWh-e) 

1,180,817,626 

Annual Energy Bill Savings (USD) 

Lifetime Energy Bill Savings (USD) 

Annual Emission Reduction (Tons) 

Lifetime Emission Reduction (Tons) 

8,191,192 

286,250,227 

17,018 

304,451 

22 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

 
DOCUMENTS REVIEWED 
 
Sustainalytics reviewed the following documents for the purposes of writing this report 
Number 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 

Document Name 
HEROProductReviewVerificationProcess_20151020 
HEROImpactValuationMethodologyOverview_20151020 
Asset Pool HERO Funding Issuances 2016-4 
Securitization Impact Statistics for HERO Funding Issuance 2016-4 
Confidential Preliminary Private Placement Memorandum for HERO Funding Notes 2016-4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

23 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

 
Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted or 
published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not accept any 
form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from the use of this 
Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that the 
information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or portfolios. 
Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of the economic 
performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective allocation of the funds’ use 
of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation and 
monitoring. 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

29 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics is the largest independent provider of sustainability 
research, analysis, and services to investors. We serve over 250 
institutional investors which include some of the world's largest asset 
owners and asset managers. Through over 20 years of experience 
serving the responsible investment (RI) market, we have gained a 
reputation for providing high-quality ESG research solutions and 
excellent client service. 

Sustainalytics is headed by seasoned professionals in the field of 
business, finance, and sustainability, with a wealth of experience in the 
Responsible Investment area. After more than 20 years of local 
experience and expertise in the Responsible Investment (RI) market 
Sustainalytics has developed a comprehensive understanding of trends 
and best practices and a solid process to assist organisations in 
integrating ESG considerations into their policies and strategies. We 
have worked with some of the world’s financial institutions including 
pension plans, investment managers and banks providing customised 
support to help them achieve their RI objectives. Clients include ABN 
AMRO, APG, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank, ING Bank, Lombard 
Odier, Lloyds Bank, Triodos Bank, UBS and over 250 other financial 
institutions and organisations. 

Sustainalytics now has a staff of 250 employees globally, including over 
120 analysts, with operations in Amsterdam, Boston, Bucharest, 
Frankfurt, New York, Paris, London, Singapore, Sydney, Timisoara, and 
Toronto, and representation in Brussels and Washington DC. 

In 2015, Sustainalytics was named the Best 
SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
GlobalCapital. In December 2014, for the 
third year in a row, Sustainalytics was 
named best sustainable and responsible 
investment research firm in the 
Independent Research in Responsible 
Investment (IRRI) Survey, conducted by 
Thomson Reuters and SRI-CONNECT.  

 
 

30 

