    

               

   
  

 RABOBANK  

GREEN AND SUSTAINABILITY 
BOND FRAMEWORK 
  FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY 

   

 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
15 September 2016 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 

Blanca Vega de Seoane  
Manager, Advisory Services  
blanca.vega@sustainalytics.com 
(+31) 20 205 00 90 
 

Tim Langer 
Senior Advisor, Institutional Relations 
tim.langer@sustainalytics.com 
+44 20 3695 9528 
 

Introduction 

© Sustainalytics 2016 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 
1.  Preface 
2. 
3.  Framework overview 
4.  Rabobank Green and sustainability Bond Framework 
4.1 Use of Proceeds 
4.2 Process for Project Evaluation and Selection 
4.3 Management of Proceeds 
4.4 Reporting 
5.  Sustainalytics’ opinion 
Conclusion 
APPENDICES 
Appendix A: Sectors and Selected Sustainability Certifications as per 9-9-2016 
Appendix B: Exclusionary Criteria 
Appendix C: Rabobank’s Sustainability Profile 
Appendix D: Documents Reviewed 
Appendix E: External Review Form Green and Sustainability Bond Framework 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 

    

 

 

  

1 
3 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
7 
8 
10 
12 
13 
13 
14 
15 
15 
16 
25 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2016 
1. PREFACE 
Rabobank1 has developed a Green and Sustainability Bond Framework to (re-)finance renewable energy 
projects and to (re-)finance small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) with selected sustainability 
certifications. Rabobank has engaged Sustainalytics to review and provide an opinion on the Green and 
Sustainability Bond Framework. Potential Rabobank Green and Sustainability Bonds issued under the 
Green and Sustainability Bond Framework will be separate issuances and these will be labelled as such 
when issued. As part of this engagement, Sustainalytics reviewed relevant public and internal documents 
of Rabobank and led conversations with relevant internal stakeholders to understand the use of proceeds, 
management  of  proceeds  and  reporting  aspects  of  Rabobank’s  Green  and  Sustainability  Bonds 
framework. This report contains two sections: Framework Overview – summary of Rabobank’s Green and 
Sustainability Bond framework; and Sustainalytics’ Opinion – an opinion on the framework. 
 2. INTRODUCTION 
Rabobank is an international cooperative bank focused on providing financial services in the Netherlands 
and is involved in retail and wholesale banking, and food and agriculture financing internationally. On its 
website, Rabobank discloses that the bank is an international financial services provider operating on the 
basis of cooperative principles.2 According to the bank, its mission is to contribute to global food safety 
and security as well as to being a leading customer-centric cooperative bank in the Netherlands and a 
leading food and agricultural bank in the world.  
According to the company’s code of conduct, sustainability is one of the four core values of Rabobank 
Group3. Its 2020 Sustainability Strategy ‘Sustainably Successful Together’ summarizes the sustainability 
ambitions of the group, including accelerating the sustainability of agriculture and the food supply and 
contributing to the sustainable development of society in the financial, social and ecological sense. The 
Bank has enacted sustainability policies with respect to its credit and loan business, is subscribed to the 
Equator Principles and is a member of the executive board of the Green Bond Principles.4  
Since 1995, Rabobank has operated a green financing and funding programme under the Green Funds 
Scheme5 of the Dutch government6 and has issued more than 6 billion euro under this retail green bonds 
and green deposits programme in the Netherlands. The Dutch Green Funds Scheme stimulates green 
innovation and has clear eligibility criteria and reporting requirements established by the government, 
and participating in the programme is fiscally attractive for retail investors. This Green Funds Scheme is 
not related to the Green and Sustainability Bond framework, which is currently under review. However, 
it indicates that Rabobank has a long history and shows market leadership in green financing. 
 1 Statutory name: Coöperatieve Centrale Raiffeisen-Boerenleenbank B.A. 
2 Corporate website, https://www.rabobank.com/en/about-rabobank/profile/who-we-are/index.html 
3 Code of Conduct Rabobank Group, https://www.rabobank.com/en/images/code-of-conduct-rabobank-en.pdf 
4 Rabobank Group, Sustainability Policy Framework, https://www.rabobank.com/en/images/sustainability-policy-framework.pdf     
5 The Green Funds Scheme,  https://www.rvo.nl/sites/default/files/bijlagen/SEN040%20DOW%20A4%20Greenfunds_tcm24-119449.pdf and 
for the criteria per category http://www.rvo.nl/subsidies-regelingen/regeling-groenprojecten  
6 https://www.rvo.nl/sites/default/files/bijlagen/SEN040%20DOW%20A4%20Greenfunds_tcm24-119449.pdf 
 

  

3 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Rabobank plays a significant role in the contribution to the growth of wind energy and renewable energy 
projects globally being a major financier of onshore and offshore wind turbines. Rabobank has 3.2 billion 
euros in outstanding loans for renewable energy generation worldwide, which account for 91 percent of 
Rabobank’s  total  energy  generation  portfolio.7Furthermore,  the  total  amount  of  sustainable  loans 
provided by Rabobank amounted to EUR 22 billion at the end of 2015.8    
 3. FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 
Rabobank has developed a framework under which it plans to (re-)finance eligible assets and issue two 
types of bonds: 
1.  Rabobank Green Bonds – funds allocated to financing of renewable energy projects; and 
2.  Rabobank Sustainability Bonds – funds allocated to loans provided to SMEs with selected 
Rabobank plans to issue separate bonds under the combined Green and Sustainable Bond Framework 
and will label the bonds as ‘Green’ or ‘Sustainability’ accordingly. 
The framework was developed with an aim to provide transparency, disclosure and clarity on the 
structure which follows the four key pillars of the Green Bond Principles (“GBP”): 

sustainability certifications on products, processes or buildings. 
 
 

  Use of Proceeds 
  Process for Project Evaluation and Selection 
  Management of Proceeds 
  Reporting 

               

 7 https://www.rabobank.com/en/about-rabobank/background-stories/sustainability/investing-in-energy-savings-and-wind-energy.html 
8 Appendices to the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 

  

4 

© Sustainalytics 2016 
4. RABOBANK GREEN AND SUSTAINABILITY BOND 
FRAMEWORK 
Rabobank, through its Sustainable Lending Programme, aims to finance large-scale wind and solar energy 
projects. In 2015, a total of 15 wind and solar projects were financed and the total financed, to date under 
this programme amounted to EUR 3.2 billion (2014: EUR 2.4 billion). The total amount of sustainable loans 
provided by Rabobank amounted to EUR 22 billion at the end of 2015.   
 Additionally, Rabobank provides loans to SMEs with sustainable certifications within the Food and 
Agriculture, and Industry and Services sectors.9 Certifications are business or product-based and selected 
to capture the commitment of SMEs to sustainable products, production processes and buildings as well 
as their involvement in key sector initiatives. Most certifications focus on environmental improvements. 
The sustainability certifications are considered to promote best practices for the relevant sector or 
activity. The total amount of loans to SMEs with sustainability certifications provided by Rabobank 
amounted to EUR 8.9 billion at the end of 2015.10 
 Based on the expertise of external parties, including “Milieucentraal”, a governmental agency in the 
Netherlands, and on Rabobank’s own analysis, a total of 47 certifications were selected by Rabobank in 
2016 (see Appendix A).11 SMEs are considered sustainability leaders if they have at least one of the 
selected sustainability certifications.  
 It is worth noting that such structure of funding sustainable SMEs that have third-party sustainability 
certifications, is also used for other funding instruments at Rabobank. An example of this is the “Rabo 
Impact Loan” – a dedicated product that is funded by the European Investment Bank (EIB) to finance, 
SMEs with sustainability certifications.  
 A  dedicated  committee  (the  Impact  Lending  Eligibility  Committee)  is  involved  in  determining  the 
applicable certifications for SMEs. The chairman is the director Sustainability at Rabobank, and members 
are  Head  portfolio  management  SME,  Team  Manager  Sustainable  Business  Development,  Head 
Sustainability Financial Markets, Head Food & Agri Research, Head Quality and Business Management 
SME, Rabo Groenbank and a Funding Manager from Treasury Rabobank Group.  
 The required criteria for certifications include thresholds on the applicable certification level as well as 
the scope of operations covered by the certification.12 The committee looks at best practices and 
performance in the relevant sector as well as the scope of the certification. Furthermore, the committee 
is engaged in dialogue with certifying bodies on eligibility. The list of selected certifications is updated 
regularly and is disclosed on Rabobank’s website. 
 
 9 Rabobank Group, Sustainable Lending Report 2014 and Draft Sustainable Lending Report 2015 
10 Internal document Rabobank Group Sustainable Lending Amounts 2015 
11 Rabobank Group, https://www.rabobank.nl/impactlening, Overview certifications, https://www.rabobank.nl/images/overzicht-
duurzaamheidskeurmerken_29800042.pdf on  
12 An example of a threshold is the BREEAM, a sustainability assessment method for masterplanning projects, infrastructure and buildings 
where an “Excellent” and “Outstanding” rating is required.  

  

5 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Rabobank applies the following criteria to select the relevant certifications SMEs need to possess to be 
eligible under the Green and Sustainability Bond Framework:  
  The  certification  sets  stricter  requirements  than  the  legal  minimum  requirements  in  the 
Netherlands unless the certificate has a legal basis such as for organic food certification;  
  The certification can be seen as adequate representation in a sector in terms of market share in 
order to create impact. In case of certifications being too specific the impact in the sector may be 
lessened;  
  A certification covers a substantial portion of the processes or product of companies.  
  The certification has an independent control mechanism in place which includes an audit process 
of certified SMEs.  
 4.1  Use of Proceeds 
 4.1.1. Use of Proceeds: Green Bonds 
The net proceeds of any bonds issued under the Green Bond label will be allocated to a portfolio of new 
and ongoing renewable energy projects (wind and solar). Proceeds will be allocated to eligible projects 
funded under Sustainable Lending Programme disbursed after an issuance under this framework or 
disbursed within a period of maximum 18 months prior to the issuance of the Bond.   
 Eligibility Criteria  
Any renewable energy project (wind and solar), including the new and ongoing developments of such 
projects, are eligible to be funded in whole or in part by an allocation of the bond proceeds.  
 
Exclusionary Criteria 
For all projects Rabobank uses a restricted activities list that is applied to all eligible projects (see Annex 
B for details).13    
 4.1.2. Use of Proceeds: Sustainability Bonds 
The net proceeds of any issuance under the Sustainability Bond label will be used exclusively to finance 
or re-finance existing and/or future loans that fund small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) with 
selected sustainability certifications on products, processes or buildings. 
 Eligibility Criteria  
SMEs should have at least one of the selected sustainability certifications in order to be allocated with the 
proceeds of the bonds issued under the Sustainability Bond Framework. 
 Exclusionary Criteria 
For all projects Rabobank uses a restricted activities list which is applied to all eligible SMEs (see Annex B 
for details).     
 
 13 Rabobank Group, Sustainability Policy Framework 

  

6 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

4.2  Process for Project Evaluation and Selection 
 4.2.1. Process for Project Evaluation and Selection: Green Bonds 
Rabobank has a dedicated project finance department for wind and solar projects and is responsible for 
the funding of renewable energy projects (wind and solar).  
 Rabobank uses an internal procedure to assess compliance with the Equator Principles (EP) for financing 
of renewable energy projects. The credit applications require an expert opinion by the sustainability 
department. An external party reviews the internal processes and roles to ensure a proper assessment. 
The Equator Principles reporting is audited by the external auditor and published in the Rabobank annual 
report and a list of projects funded is also available on the Equator Principles’14 website. 
 
4.2.2. Process for Project Evaluation and Selection: Sustainability Bonds 
SMEs with sustainability certifications are tagged in the client relationship management system and 
management information tool. In 2014 Rabobank introduced a so-called 'impact' field in this system. It 
indicates at client level which sustainability certifications are applicable to a specific client.  This allows 
Rabobank to accurately identify and select the loans in order to allocate Sustainability Bond proceeds 
appropriately. The loans and bond proceeds allocated to them are recorded and monitored in the 
management information system that is used for tracking and reporting purposes.  
As a part of the annual report verification, the quality of the selection process of the loans and the data 
provided is verified by external auditors. 
 
4.3  Management of Proceeds  
 4.3.1 Management of Proceeds: Green Bonds 
All outstanding proceeds from bonds issued under the Green Bond and Sustainability Framework will be 
balanced and matched with eligible renewable energy projects on a portfolio basis. The treasury 
department will match the funding of renewable energy projects with the proceeds of the Green Bond. 
The treasury department manages the allocation of the Green Bond proceeds on a portfolio basis. 
Rabobank aims maintains a substantial buffer of renewable energy projects (of at least 130% of bond 
amount), which will ensure compliance with the use of proceeds requirements even when loans are 
impacted unexpectedly or in case of maturity mismatches.  
Rabobank  aims  to  ensure  that  the  systems  and  processes  as  specified  above  meet  the  stated 
requirements during the entire lifetime of a bond. 
Pending the full allocation of the net proceeds of any bond issued under the Green Bond label, Rabobank 
will hold and/or invest, at its own discretion, in its liquidity portfolio, the balance of net proceeds not yet 
allocated to eligible renewable energy projects. 
 
 14 http://www.equator-principles.com/index.php/members/rabobank 

  

7 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

4.3.2 Management of Proceeds: Sustainability Bonds 
All outstanding Sustainability Bonds will be balanced and matched on a portfolio basis to the eligible loans 
to sustainable SMEs.  Rabobank has a group wide financial management information system to track the 
proceeds allocated to eligible SME clients. As long as the Sustainability Bonds are outstanding, the 
proceeds will be balanced by a matching amount of eligible SME loans. Rabobank maintains a substantial 
buffer (of at least 130%) of SME loans. This will ensure compliance even when loans are impacted 
unexpectedly or in case of maturity mismatches. Rabobank will ensure that the systems and processes as 
specified above meet their requirements during the entire lifetime of any bond issued under the Green 
and Sustainability Bond Framework.  
 Rabobank earmarks the loans in the client relationship management system on an annual basis.  Clients’ 
credentials are earmarked by an annual centralized process which is valid until the next earmarking cycle. 
The Group’s Treasury Department manages the funding of eligible SMEs on a portfolio basis.  
 Pending the full allocation of the net proceeds of the Sustainability Bond to the eligible SME loans, 
Rabobank will hold and/or invest, at its own discretion, in its liquidity portfolio, the balance of net 
proceeds not yet allocated to eligible SME loans. 
 4.4  Reporting  
 4.4.1 Reporting: Green Bonds 
Allocation Reporting  
Rabobank commits to publishing an annual report detailing the aggregate allocation of the proceeds. The 
bank will specifically report on the applicable category of the projects under the framework for renewable 
energy projects (wind and solar).  Allocation reporting will be available to investors within one year from 
the date of a Green Bond issuance and annually thereafter, until the proceeds have been fully allocated 
to eligible projects. The report will provide insights into the total amount and number of loans for 
renewable energy projects (wind and solar) provided under the Green Bond Framework.  
Rabobank will disclose a list of renewable energy projects as far as client confidentiality allows this.  
 Impact Reporting 
Rabobank will report on the estimated installed capacity in gigawatt (GW) for the size of the bond as well 
as standard Equator Principles reporting for all projects.  
 
4.4.2 Reporting: Sustainability Bonds 
Allocation Reporting  
Rabobank commits to publishing an annual report detailing the aggregate allocation of the proceeds. 
Rabobank will specifically report on the applicable category of the SMEs under the framework.  Allocation 
reporting will be available to investors within one year from the date of the Sustainability Bond issuance 
and annually thereafter until the proceeds have been fully allocated to eligible SMEs. 
 

  

8 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Rabobank will annually report on the allocation and amounts financed under its Green and Sustainability 
Bond Framework. The reporting will produce insights into the total amount and number of loans provided. 
This reporting aligns with the ambition of Rabobank to double the amount earmarked to sustainable 
lending by 2020.  
 Due to confidentiality reasons, Rabobank will not be able to provide information on individual SME loans. 
Rabobank plans to reports the allocation without referring to client names. 
 Impact Reporting 
For the SME funding, a breakdown of the amounts per selected sustainability certification scheme, and 
sectors will be provided. In addition, the reporting strives to provide details on the objectives of the 
certifications and performance indicators provided by the certifying bodies (such as carbon emissions 
avoided for example). Some case studies of projects will illustrate the positive impact of clients as far as 
client confidentiality allows this. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    

 

 

  

9 

© Sustainalytics 2016 
5. SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
Sustainability Performance of Rabobank 
Based on Sustainalytics’ ESG research, Rabobank is assessed as an outperformer among its banking peers.  
The bank is a leader in environmental, social management and an outperformer on its governance 
management. Rabobank ranks in the top 5% of the 396 banks covered in the Sustainalytics universe. The 
bank has a very strong environmental policy and environmental management system. Although it 
continues to face significant business ethics issues, Rabobank demonstrates adequate performance on 
the key issues of responsible finance and financial product governance. Responsible finance refers to 
practices and strategies employed by banks to integrate sustainability criteria into financial lending and 
investment decisions. Rabobank has strong credit and loan standards and excludes certain industries from 
financing for sustainability reasons. Equally, Rabobank outperforms its peers with regards to financial 
product governance: the company has implemented strong programmes to integrate customer feedback 
and market its products and services responsibly. Rabobank is also a member of the executive committee 
of the ICMA Green Bond Principles.  
 While Rabobank received public complaints over Rabobank’s breach of its own policies, it stands out for 
its strong credit guidelines that commits the bank to refraining from business relationships with parties 
that are unable to demonstrate human rights or environmental protection. These policies provide 
evidence that Rabobank is, in Sustainalytics’ opinion, well positioned to issue bonds under this Green and 
Sustainability Bond Framework. For a full snapshot of Rabobank’s environmental, social and governance 
performance, please see Appendix C.  
 Impact of the Use of Proceeds: 
Green Bond: Renewable energy projects  
By  (re-)financing  renewable  energy  projects  under  its  Green  and  Sustainability  Bond  Framework, 
Rabobank leverages its position as a bank targeting sustainable growth and engaging in investing in strong 
performers on sustainability. The proceeds of Rabobank’s issuances under its Green Bond label will be 
matched with a project portfolio that facilitate climate change mitigation by financing renewable energy 
projects. Rabobank has formulated guidelines with respect to its credit and loan business and all 
renewable energy projects to be funded are assessed in accordance with the Equator Principles. This 
process entails assigning each project a category status which could either be category A (potential 
substantial adverse impacts on society and the environment), category B (potential limited adverse 
impacts on society and the environment) or category C (minimal or no adverse impacts on society and the 
environment). 15 Rabobank provided data to Sustainalytics that revealed that in 2015 loans were granted 
to 15 projects. Of these 15 projects, 13 projects qualified under category B of the principles and 2 under 
category C. 
 Project financing also has the potential to be associated with negative environmental and social impacts. 
Sustainalytics  was  not  able  to  review  all  existing  eligible  solar  and  wind  projects  but  Rabobank 
transparently discloses a list of projects on the website of the Equator Principles Association Secretariat. 
Sustainalytics was able to review the assigned ratings for a sub-set of the projects financed in 2015 which 
 15http://www.ifc.org/wps/wcm/connect/topics_ext_content/ifc_external_corporate_site/sustainability+and+disclosure/environmental+and+s
ocial+categorization 

  

10 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

confirmed Rabobank’s approach to assign ratings to projects. Rabobank indicated that when an eligible 
project borrower fails to meet the requirements set out by the eligibility criteria, it will seek for such 
breaches to be promptly addressed and/or remedied in a manner satisfactory to Rabobank.  
 Rabobank confirmed to Sustainalytics that the amounts financed by Green Bond issuances will be 
externally audited. Rabobank reports on the eligible renewable energy projects on the website of the 
Equator Principles Association. Rabobank will report on an aggregated portfolio basis the amounts and 
percentage of solar and wind project categories. Furthermore, Rabobank will provide impact reporting on 
the aggregated level by disclosing the estimated installed capacity in gigawatt (GW). 
 Sustainability Bond: Financing SMEs with Selected Sustainability Certifications  
By  issuing  a  Sustainability  Bond,  Rabobank  continues  to  leverage  its  position  as  a  bank  targeting 
sustainable growth and engaging in investing in strong performers on sustainability. Companies meeting 
Rabobank’s eligibility criteria are required to hold selected sustainability certifications on products and 
processes are considered to stand out in their efforts to develop a new level of best practices due to the 
strict  selection  criteria.  Rabobank  aims  to  increase  lending  to  SMEs  that  commit  to  sustainability 
certification  and  thereby,  strives  to  encourage  clients  to  be  innovative  in  order  to  improve  the 
sustainability of their products and production processes. Rabobank makes use of a dedicated committee 
involved in the selection of credible certifications eligible SMEs need to possess. In Sustainalytics opinion 
this demonstrates that Rabobank has developed a strong process which is informed by internal expertise 
in the identification, evaluation and assessment of eligible SMEs. The aforementioned project selection 
processes and commitments are in our view in line with market expectations for Sustainability Bonds. 
 Rabobank requires that the eligible SMEs possess certifications that are based on strict criteria, have an 
independent  control  mechanism  and  go  beyond  minimum  legal  standards.  Rabobank  also  allow 
exceptions where eligible SMEs possess certification(s) that do not meet all stated criteria in case a certain 
certificate  is the  only certificate  in  a sector or when  a  label  is  seen  as  important  by the  sector. 
Sustainalytics was not able to review all selected certificates and their eligibility with the criteria stated in 
Rabobank’s Sustainability Bond Framework but Rabobank demonstrates transparency by disclosing the 
selected list of certifications which is updated on an annual basis (see Appendix A).  
 Sustainalytics was not able to review all selected beneficiaries. For confidentiality reasons, these cannot 
be disclosed by Rabobank. However, Rabobank confirmed to Sustainalytics that it ensures that the 
beneficiaries  been  subject  to  environmental  and  social  risk  assessments.  Rabobank  also  provided 
Sustainalytics with additional details for some of the beneficiaries in order to permit Sustainalytics to 
conduct  a  review  of  any  negative environmental  or  social  impacts  related  to  the  SMEs  financed. 
Sustainalytics did not find any significant controversies connected to the SMEs involved.  
 Rabobank aims to provide aggregated reporting of the number of SMEs financed but for practical reasons, 
will not be able provide information regarding the impact of individual loans. However, Rabobank will 
report in generic terms on an aggregated portfolio basis by disclosing the percentage allocated to project 
categories. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Rabobank’s reporting on its Green and Sustainability Bond 
Framework offers credible reporting on the aggregated allocation of the portfolio of assets. However, 
Sustainalytics notes that Rabobank is not able to commit to transparently report on each of the eligible 

  

11 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

 

SMEs  funded  under  its  Sustainability  Bond  Framework  due  to  confidentially  reasons.  Moreover, 
Rabobank’s impact reporting does not contain specific key performance indicators on environmental or 
sustainability impact for each of the SME eligible to be funded.  This is a common challenge faced by 
issuers when reporting about impact of their lending to SMEs. 
 Alignment with Green Bond Principles 2016:  
Sustainalytics has determined that Rabobank’s Green and Sustainability Bond Framework follows the 
structure of the four pillars of the Green Bond Principles 2016. It is to be noted that proceeds of the 
Sustainability  Bond  will  not  be  used  to  fund  projects  but  rather  SMEs  with  higher  sustainability 
performance. Nonetheless, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Rabobank comprehensively reports on the 
sectors and selected certifications of SMEs to be funded on an aggregated portfolio basis. For detailed 
information please refer to Appendix E: Green and Sustainability Bond Framework External Review Form. 
Conclusion 
Rabobank has developed a combined Green and Sustainability Bond Framework – for future bond 
issuances aiming to finance renewable projects that contribute to climate change mitigation as well as 
SME lending for sustainability leaders. Most of Rabobank’s eligibility criteria target projects with a positive 
environmental and/or social impact. Rabobank also has detailed exclusionary criteria in its investment 
process that go beyond legal compliance. Using its internal standards, the bank assesses environmental, 
health and safety risks related to potential projects to be financed and decides on the eligibility of each 
client.  
 By  defining  strong eligibility criteria,  demonstrating  a structured  and  transparent  project  selection 
process, management of proceeds, and reporting on an aggregate level, Rabobank is acting in accordance 
with its environmental commitments. Rabobank has also committed to provide an analysis of the 
renewable energy project portfolio and discloses standard Equator Principles reporting for all projects 
funded to ensure that the projects selected for the bond are in compliance with the Framework’s eligibility 
criteria.  
 In summary, Rabobank’s Green and Sustainability Bond Framework follows the structure of the four key 
pillars of the Green Bond Principles. By (re-)financing renewable energy projects Rabobank’s Green Bond 
Framework enables Rabobank to leverage its significant role in the contribution to the growth of wind 
energy and renewable energy projects.  
 For the use of proceeds of its Sustainability Bond, Rabobank will not be selecting projects but will allocate 
proceeds  to  companies.  Nonetheless,  Sustainalytics  considers  the  eligibility  criteria  for  the  use  of 
proceeds for the Sustainability Bond to be credible and will generate positive impact by channelling funds 
to SMEs that are leaders in their approach to sustainability. Sustainalytics is confident that Rabobank’s 
methodology adequately assesses companies on key sustainability issues and is effective in identifying 
SMEs that possess credible sustainability certifications. 
 Based  on  the  above  considerations,  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  Rabobank’s  Green  and 
Sustainability Bond framework is robust and credible. 

  

12 

© Sustainalytics 2016 
APPENDICES 
Appendix A: Sectors and Selected Sustainability Certifications as per 9-9-201616  
Sector  
Flowers and plants 

Fishery 
Manufacturing 
Meat industry 

Leisure, tourism and hospitality 

Organic Food production 
Other Food  
Automotive 
Transportation 
Health Care 
Clothing and fabrics 
Building and construction 

Multi sector 

 
 16 https://www.rabobank.nl/impactlening 

  

Selected Certifications   
Barometer Duurzame Bloemist, MPS Sustainable Quality, 
Fair Flowers Fair Plants, Groen Label Kas, Groenkeur (tree 
nurseries) 
ASC, MSC, Maatlat Duurzame Aquacultuur 
EU Ecolabel, Cradle to Cradle, Metaalunie MVO monitor 
Keten  Duurzaam  Rundvlees  (beef),  Keten  Duurzaam 
Varkensvlees  (pork),  Beter  Leven,  Maatlat  Duurzame 
Veehouderij 
Blue  flag,  Green  Key,  Green  Seat,  Travel  Certified, 
Barometer Duurzame Evenementen, Golf Environmental 
Organization (GEO) 
Demeter, EKO, EKO Holland 
Fairtrade Max Havelaar, Rainforest Alliance, UTZ Certified, 
Duurzaam repareren, Erkend duurzaam 
Green Award, Lean & Green 
Milieuthermometer Zorg 
Fair Wear, Made-By, Care & Fair 
MeerMetMinder,  Breeam-NL,  Barometer  Duurzaam 
Terreinbeheer, FSC (suppliers) 
Milieukeur,  MVO  Koploper,  MVO  Prestatieladder,  MVO 
Groeikeurmerk,  MVO-Wijzer,  CO2  Prestatieladder,  B-
corporation, Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) 

13 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Appendix B: Exclusionary Criteria 
Restricted Activities List Rabobank  

bans 

Involved in the development, production, trade, marketing, sales, distribution, transport and 
1. 
maintenance of controversial weapons and munitions: cluster munitions, anti-personnel mines, 
biological, chemical weapons, nuclear weapons 
2.  Purchase of logging equipment for use in primary tropical moist forest 
3.  Trade in wildlife or wildlife products regulated under CITES or species on the IUCN Red List of 
threatened species 
4.  Production or trade in or use of unbounded asbestos fibres 
5.  Production or trade in products containing PCBs or other Persistent 
6.  Organic Pollutants (POPs) subject to international bans or phase outs 
7.  Production or trade in pharmaceuticals subject to international phase outs or bans 
8.  Production or trade in pesticides/herbicides subject to international phase outs or bans 
9.  Production or trade in ozone depleting substances (ODS) subject to international phase outs or 
10. Drift net fishing in the marine environment using nets in excess of 2.5 km. in length 
11. Traditional goose liver (foie gras) production and trade 
12. The exploration and production of shale gas or other non-conventional minerals (oil from tar 
 Loan and Credit Standards 
Rabobank Group has formulated guidelines with respect to its credit and loan business. In its human rights 
position paper, the group addresses employee discrimination, forced labour, child labour, poor working 
conditions and violation of the rights of indigenous peoples. Companies should uphold these human rights 
and are encouraged to initiate programs that focus on these rights. Rabobank has policies on animal 
welfare, armaments and genetic modification, in which it specifies exclusionary clauses with respect to 
financing companies that are involved in these industries. Additionally, Rabobank has published several 
sector statements that serve as a guide for its credit policy, these include: aquaculture, biofuels, cocoa, 
coffee, cotton, forestry, mining, oil & gas, palm oil, soy, sugarcane and wild catch. Finally, the company 
expects clients operating in sensitive countries and industries such as soy, palm oil, sugarcane, forestry 
and beef to demonstrate by 2020 their commitment to conducting business in line with internationally 
accepted sustainability standards. 
 
 
 

sands and oil shale, fuel from liquefied coal and shale gas) and the supply of services and means 
that are specifically designed and dedicated to the exploration  

  

14 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Appendix C: Rabobank’s Sustainability Profile   

 
 

15 

 

 Appendix D: Documents Reviewed 
 Sustainalytics reviewed the following documents for the purposes of writing this report: 
  Number 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 

Document Name 
Rabobank Group, Sustainability Policy Framework  
Rabobank Group, Sustainable Lending Report 2014 
Rabobank Group, Geselecteerde Duurzaamheidskeurmerken en – initiatieven 
Rabobank Group, Equator Principles Implementation  
Rabobank Group, Overview Sustainable Lending Amounts 2015 
Rabobank Group, Annual Report 2015  
Rabobank Group Code of Conduct  
Presentation 2016 Impact Lending Examples 
Internal Study on Certifications (Excel)  
Rabobank Group, Draft Sustainable Lending Report 2015 

 

  

  

© Sustainalytics 2016 

 Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 

                      

  

24 

© Sustainalytics 2016 
SUSTAINALYTICS 
 Sustainalytics is the largest independent provider of sustainability 
research, analysis, and services to investors. We serve over 250 
institutional investors which include some of the world's largest asset 
owners and asset managers. Through over 20 years of experience 
serving the responsible investment (RI) market, we have gained a 
reputation for providing high-quality ESG research solutions and 
excellent client service. 
Sustainalytics is headed by seasoned professionals in the field of 
business, finance, and sustainability, with a wealth of experience in the 
Responsible Investment area. After more than 20 years of local 
experience and expertise in the Responsible Investment (RI) market 
Sustainalytics has developed a comprehensive understanding of trends 
and best practices and a solid process to assist organisations in 
integrating ESG considerations into their policies and strategies. We 
have worked with some of the world’s financial institutions including 
pension plans, investment managers and banks providing customised 
support to help them achieve their RI objectives. Clients include ABN 
AMRO, APG, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank, ING Bank, Lombard 
Odier, Lloyds Bank, Triodos Bank, UBS and over 250 other financial 
institutions and organisations. 
Sustainalytics now has a staff of 250 employees globally, including over 
120 analysts, with operations in Amsterdam, Boston, Bucharest, 
Frankfurt, New York, Paris, London, Singapore, Sydney, Timisoara, and 
Toronto, and representation in Brussels and Washington DC. 
In 2015, Sustainalytics was named the Best 
SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
GlobalCapital. In December 2014, for the 
third year in a row, Sustainalytics was 
named best sustainable and responsible 
investment research firm in the 
Independent Research in Responsible 
Investment (IRRI) Survey, conducted by 
Thomson Reuters and SRI-CONNECT.  
 

 

  

25 

