 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  REPOWER 
GREEN BOND 

 

 
 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND PARTY 

OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 

November 21st, 2016 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 

 

Catarina da Silva (Amsterdam) 

Trisha Taneja (Toronto) 

Charlotte Peyraud (New York) 

Senior Advisor, Advisory Services 
catarina.dasilva@sustainalytics.com 
(+31) 20 205 00 45 

Advisor, Advisory Services 
trisha.taneja@sustainalytics.com 
(+1 ) 647 317 3695 

Senior Advisor, Institutional Relations 
charlotte.peyraud@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 646 518 0184 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Vikram Puppala  

Vikram Puppala  

Vikram Puppala  

© Sustainalytics 2016 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

1. 

Introduction 

2.  Preface 

3.  Framework Overview 

3.1 Use of Proceeds 
3.2 Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
3.3 Management of Proceeds 
3.4 Reporting 

5. Sustainalytics’ Opinion 

Sustainability Performance of Repower 
Sustainalytics’ Opinion on Repower’s Green SSD framework 
Impact of use of proceeds: the importance of renewable energy in Europe 
Conclusion 

Appendices 

Appendix 1: Documents reviewed 
Appendix 2: List of Eligible Projects (project portfolio) 
Appendix 3: Description of Eligible Projects 
Appendix 4: Adherence to the Green Bond Principles 2016 

About Sustainalytics 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

3 

3 

4 
4 
5 
5 
6 

7 
7 
8 
9 
9 

10 
10 
11 
12 
14 

21 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

1. INTRODUCTION 
Repower  AG  (“Repower”)  is  an  international  energy  company  headquartered  in  Poschiavo  (Canton 
Graubünden, Switzerland). The group operates along the entire electricity value chain. It engages in the 
generation,  management,  trading,  sale,  transmission,  and  distribution  of  electricity.  The  company 
currently generates electricity using own hydro, gas and wind power plants. Furthermore, Repower holds 
interests in nuclear power resources. Repower’s key markets are Switzerland and Italy.  
 
Repower has identified adjusting its energy mix as one of the key strategic changes for the company in 
the coming years. In 2015, Repower realigned its strategy in response to changes in the energy market. 
In its 2025 Strategy, Repower sets the intention to 100% renewable energy generation, and commits to a 
closer focus on services and sales, concentration on the Swiss and Italian markets, and the delisting of 
Repower's securities from the stock exchange. 
 
Repower’s 2025 strategy also signals the company’s efforts to shift from nuclear power and fossil fuels to 
renewable energy resources. In addition to Repower’s objective to generate 100% renewable energy, the 
company is currently considering the sale of its nuclear power interests and its majority holding in the 
Teverola  combined-cycle  gas  turbine  plant  in  southern  Italy.  Repower  also  intends  to  consolidate  and 
develop its portfolio of hydropower assets, the backbone of its own generation capacity representing 52% 
of the electricity generated by Repower1.  
 
In alignment with Repower’s 2025 Strategy and sustainability vision, the company is considering to issue 
a  green  bond  to  finance  or  refinance  the  company’s  investments  in  renewable  energy,  namely 
expenditures related to the acquisition and development of wind and hydropower plants. These projects 
include four wind parks located in Italy and Germany and two hydropower plants located in Switzerland. 
 
 
2. PREFACE 
Repower  plans  to  issue  a  Green  Bond  or  Schuldscheindarlehen/  Namensschuldverschreibung  (“Green 
SSD”)  to  finance  or  refinance  the  company’s  investments  in  renewable  energy,  namely  expenditures 
related  to  the  acquisition,  development,  operation  and  maintenance  of  wind  parks  and  hydropower 
plants. Repower has engaged Sustainalytics to provide an external review of its Green SSD framework, its 
alignment  with  the  transparency  and  reporting  requirements  of  the  International  Capital  Market 
Association 2016 Green Bond Principles (“GBP”)2 as well as the Green SSD’s environmental impact. As part 
of this engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of Repower’s treasury and 
sustainability teams to understand the company’s sustainability vision and performance, the planned use 
and management of proceeds and reporting associated with estimated positive impacts. Sustainalytics 
also reviewed relevant public and internal documents. This document contains two sections: Framework 

 
1 2015 data; refers to energy generated through own generation assets, interests and purchase rights. 
2  The  Green  Bond  Principles  are  voluntary  process  guidelines  that  recommend  transparency  and  disclosure  and  promote  integrity  in  the 
development of the green bond market. They provide issuers guidance on the key components involved in launching a credible green bond and 
aid investors by ensuring availability of information necessary to evaluate the environmental impact of their green bond investments. 

 

 

3 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Overview – summary of Repower’s Green Bond framework; and Sustainalytics’ Opinion – a review of the 
framework.  
 
 
3. FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 
For  the  issuance  of  Repower’s  Green  SSD,  a  framework  has  been  created  in  alignment  with  market 
practices  and  investors’  expectations.  This  framework  follows  the  International  Capital  Market 
Association (ICMA)’s 2016 Green Bond Principles (“GBP”). The four pillars of the GBP are: 

  Use of Proceeds  
  Project Evaluation and Selection Process  
  Management of Proceeds  
  Reporting 

 
3.1 Use of Proceeds 
Repower will use the net proceeds of the Green SSD to finance or refinance the company’s investments 
in renewable energy. Expenditures include activities related to the acquisition, development, operation 
and  maintenance  of  wind  parks  and  hydropower  plants  developed  or  acquired  since  2007,  which  are 
eligible as per the criteria specified below.  
 
Eligibility Criteria 
For  a  project  to  be  financed  or  refinanced  through  Repower’s  Green  SSD  proceeds,  it  must  meet  the 
following eligibility criteria:  
 

i. 

Renewable energy production – Wind Parks and Hydropower Projects 
Capital  and  operational  expenditures  allocated  to  acquisition,  development,  operation  and 
maintenance of wind parks and run-of-river hydropower projects. Such expenditures include: 

a.  Land acquisition and notary costs 
b.  Project studies (e.g. technical wind power potential reports) 
c.  Environmental impact reports 
d.  Construction work (including electrical installation, related building structures, 

supporting facilities during construction phase, etc.) 

e.  Acquisition of wind turbines 
f.  Acquisition of electrical equipment (e.g. transformers, cables, special illumination for 

obstacle, etc.) 

g.  Acquisition of (other) equipment (e.g. waterproofing materials, water pressure pipes, 

etc.) 

h.  Commissioning expenses3 (costs of configuration, security - HSE, etc.) 
i. 
Legal counseling 
j.  Risk insurances 

 

 
3  Commissioning  covers  activities  after  all  components  of  the  wind  turbine  are  installed.  Commissioning  tests  will  usually  involve  standard 
electrical tests for the electrical infrastructure as well as the turbine, and inspection of routine civil engineering quality records. 

 

 

4 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Please see Appendix 2 for a full list of projects that meet the eligibility criteria (project portfolio). For a 
description of each project see Appendix 3.  
 
Exclusionary Criteria 
Proceeds of the Green SSD may not be used to finance or refinance activities related to: 

(i) 
(ii) 

Large-scale hydropower plants that have a generation capacity of over 15MW;   
Nuclear power plants.  

 

 

3.2 Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
Projects refinanced through the Green SSD proceeds are evaluated and selected based on compliance 
with eligibility criteria. Selected portfolio projects (see Appendices 2 and 3) were approved by Repower’s 
board of directors.  
 
Repower  has  confirmed  to  Sustainalytics  that  all eligible  projects  have  been  subject  to  environmental 
impact assessments as required by Swiss, Italian, German and other applicable domestic legislation. For 
example,  for  Swiss  hydropower  plants  a  UVP  (Umweltvergträglichkeitsprüfung)  1  is  required  for  the 
environmental impact during the construction and a UVP 2 for the impact during operation. Each project 
in Switzerland requires approval from relevant public authorities such as the communes, the canton and 
the  ‘Federal  Office  for  Environment’  (BAFU).  For  hydropower  projects,  the  office  for  ‘Fishery  and 
Prevention  of  water  pollution’  and  forest  officials  are  also  involved.  In  addition,  non-governmental 
organizations are consulted before final project approval by governmental authorities.  
 
 
3.3 Management of Proceeds  
Proceeds from the Green SSD will be managed and allocated by Repower’s Treasury team. While project 
evaluation  and  selection  is  carried  out  on  a  project  basis  (i.e.  individual  projects  are  evaluated  and 
selected based on eligibility criteria), the management of proceeds will be done by Repower on a portfolio 
basis (i.e. proceeds will be allocated to the entire eligible renewable energy project portfolio developed 
or acquired since 2007 rather than to specific projects). 
  
Before  issuance,  Repower  will  verify  that  the  actual  book  value  of  the  assets4  included  in  the  project 
portfolio  (see  Appendix 2)  equals  or  exceeds  the  net  proceeds  of  the  total  amount  of  Green  SSDs 
outstanding at time of issuance. This information will be verified by Repower’s external auditor.  
 
Repower will use the net proceeds of the  Green SSD in part to refinance a CHF 200 million bond that 
reached maturity and that has also funded renewable energy investments. The proceeds of the issuance 
by Repower will be immediately allocated towards refinancing eligible projects (see Appendix 2), in line 
with the book value of each project as per end of 2016. Repower’s total investment made in wind parks 
and hydropower plants over the past years significantly exceeds the net proceeds of this Green SSD.  
 
4 Repower will consider the book value of the eligible projects (as per end of 2016) instead of initial investment costs. As the book value is usually 
lower than the development value, using book value for acquired assets ensures that there is no excess of funds resulting from a discrepancy 
between development costs and acquisition value. 

 

 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

3.4 Reporting  
Allocation Reporting 
Repower will disclose allocation reporting which, on a portfolio basis, will include: 

(i) 
(ii) 

Project descriptions of all acquired or developed projects after 2007 (as relevant);  
Verification by Repower’s external auditor that the total book value5 of the assets included in 
the project portfolio (see Appendix 2) equals or exceeds the net Green SSD’s proceeds at time 
of issuance. Book values will match Repower’s participation in each project. 
 
The external auditor will only confirm the aforementioned amounts (namely the book values 
of the eligible projects as of 31.12.2016 presented by Repower and the amount of proceeds 
of the Green SSD) without performing any kind of reviews on project costs/investments.  
 

Given that the Green SSD proceeds will be fully allocated upon issuance, there will be one-time allocation 
reporting  for  the  financial  year  2017.  In  this  allocation  reporting,  book  values  (reflecting  Repower’s 
participation  in  each  project)  as  per  end  of  2016  will  be  used.  The  allocation  reporting,  due  to 
confidentiality clauses, will be available only to the current investors of the Green SSD. 
 
 
Impact Reporting 
Repower has committed to quantitatively disclosing, on a portfolio basis, Repower’s share of the:  

(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 

Net annual installed capacity in MW per EUR invested;  
Estimated GHG emissions avoided annually in tonnes of CO2 avoided per EUR invested;  
Total net annual installed capacity in MW for the eligible project portfolio.  

 
This information will be gathered and the carbon impact will be reported on a best-effort basis. 
 
Impact reporting will be disclosed to the Green SSD’s investors once, for the financial year 2017. Given 
that the project portfolio is defined, impact indicators will be static throughout the life of the Green SSD. 
The report will be available only to investors in the Green SSD.  
 
 
 

 

 

 
5 Book value as of 31.12.2016 

 

 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

5. SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION  
 
Sustainability Performance of Repower 
Alignment of the Green SSD framework with Repower’s business strategy 
Sustainalytics  has  a  positive  view  on  Repower’s  2025  Strategy  and  on  how  the  company  integrates 
environmental  considerations  into  its  operations.  Repower’s  intention  to  generate  100%  renewable 
energy  (hydro,  wind  and  photovoltaic)  and  sell  its  majority  holdings  in  gas  power  plants  signals  the 
company’s leadership in a necessary industry transition towards low-carbon solutions. This vision is also 
evident in the company’s product development strategy. Repower offers several green power products, 
energy intelligence solutions and electric vehicle services (e.g. charging stations).  
 
Furthermore, Repower has a certified environmental management system (ISO 14001:2004), in line with 
best practices, and the company states that it strives to continually improve its environmental footprint.  
 
Considering the above, Sustainalytics considers that Repower’s Green SSD framework is in alignment with 
the  company’s  strategy  and  will  positively  contribute  to  its efforts  to  support  the  transition  to  a  low-
carbon economy and improve the company’s environmental footprint.  
 
Well positioned to address common wind and hydropower plants development challenges 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Repower has a robust environmental risk assessment process that 
mitigates possible project development concerns related to wind and hydropower plants (e.g. biodiversity 
impacts).  This  is  also  ensured  by  strong  governance  and  regulatory  systems  of  the  countries  where 
Repower operates. Repower has shown evidence that eligible projects comply with Environmental Impact 
Assessment (EIA) requirements. EIAs reviewed by Sustainalytics conclude that Repower has measures in 
place to adequately address and manage potential risks. The EIAs performed, evaluated the projects on 
numerous parameters including listing potential environmental impacts, with a focus on effects for water 
ecosystems,  namely  the  risk  of  water  contamination  during  construction  for  hydropower  plants.  In 
addition, potential impacts on fauna, agriculture, and archeological sites were also assessed.  
 
Furthermore, most of the projects being refinanced through the proceeds of this Green SSD are complete 
and  operational  (with  the  exception  of  Taschinas  II,  which  is  still  in  development).  Sustainalytics  has 
reviewed all projects, and found no evidence of  environmental or social controversies associated with 
these  projects.  Furthermore,  for  Taschinas  II,  the  non-governmental  organization  WWF  has  reported 
evidence of a positive correlation between healthy populations of sea trout (previously threatened) and 
solutions implemented at Taschinas II in the catchment area6. This is a partnership under WWF’s “Living 
Alpes” environmental platform.   
  
 
 
 

 
6 http://www.wwf-gr.ch/themen-projekte/artenvielfalt/seeforelle/. 

 

 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Sustainalytics’ Opinion on Repower’s Green SSD framework  
Sustainalytics’ opinion on the use of proceeds 
Renewable  energy  is  recognized  by  the  GBP  as  an  eligible  green  project  category,  offering  clear 
environmental  benefits.  However,  the  eligible  projects  under  Repower’s  Green  SSD  include  projects 
developed  or  acquired  from  2007  onwards.  While  there  is  a  clear  ongoing  environmental  benefit  in 
continued renewable energy generation, there is limited additionality given that proceeds are refinancing 
assets that have been in operation for a significant period of time. 
 
Operational Expenditures 
Proceeds of Green SSD might be allocated to OPEX (operational expenditures) specific to eligible projects. 
Sustainalytics considers that Repower has a reliable process to track OPEX to eligible projects, by using a 
software  (SAP)  that  registers  costs  for  each  power  plant.  This  register  will  include  all  OPEX  and 
maintenances  procedures.  Furthermore,  given  the  nature  of  the  projects,  Sustainalytics  believes  that 
OPEX  will  be  important  to  maintain  projects  and  will  contribute  to  sustaining  positive  environmental 
impacts.  
 
Sustainalytics’ opinion on reporting 
Sustainalytics has a positive view on the valuation approach implemented by Repower for its allocation 
reporting: 

 

(i) 
(ii) 

Using book value for eligible acquired and developed assets; 
Repower  expressed  the  intention  to  include  a  buffer  in  the  presented  valuation  to 
compensate for further depreciation of the assets.  

 
Sustainalytics  considers  using  the  book  value  to  be  a  meaningful  and  robust  valuation  approach  that 
accurately reflects the value of the eligible assets under this Green SSD framework. Despite the fact that 
the company does not disclose valuations due to  their confidential nature, Sustainalytics believes that 
having an external auditor verifying that the total book value of the assets included in the project portfolio 
equals or exceeds the net Green SSD’s proceeds at time of issuance is a sound approach.  
 
With respect to impact reporting, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Repower’s initiative to report on 
impact by disclosing the share of impact created per monetary unit is generally strong, as it directly links 
impact  created  to  proceeds  of  the  Green  SSD.  Sustainalytics  recognizes  that  this  approach  does  not 
disclose impact created throughout the life of the asset.  
 
Alignment with Green Bond Principles (GBP) 2016: Sustainalytics has determined that Repower’s Green 
SSD aligns with the four pillars of the ICMA 2016 Green Bond Principles. Please see Appendix 4 for details.  
 
 
 
 

 

 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Impact of use of proceeds: the importance of renewable energy in Europe 
In 2007, the EU set its 2020 Strategy7 for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. One of the key focus 
areas is ‘Climate change and Energy’. Three binding 2020 targets have been defined: (i) greenhouse gas 
emissions 20% lower than 1990 levels; (ii) 20% of energy from renewables; (iii) 20% increase in energy 
efficiency. This has caused a significant  increase in renewable energy generation which is expected to 
continue the coming decade. 
 
In  addition,  the  reduction of  carbon  dioxide  (CO2)  emissions  is one  of  the  key  commitments made  by 
national governments in the framework of the UN Climate Change Convention and particularly since the 
2015 Paris Agreement. Meeting these objectives will require switching to low-carbon energy sources. 
 
According to governmental sources8, Switzerland also pursues an active policy on reducing greenhouse 
gases. The Swiss government’s target for 2020 is to reach a renewable energy production equal to 24% of 
total energy consumption. The expansion of hydropower (in particular small-scale, below 10 MW) and 
new renewable energies is one of the emphasis of the country’s Energy Strategy 20509.  
 
Given this context, Sustainalytics considers that Repower’s Green SSD, under which proceeds will be used 
to  finance  and  refinance  wind  and  small-scale  hydropower  plants,  aligns  and  provides  a  positive 
contribution to Europe’s  strategic objectives on the reduction of CO2  emissions and increasing energy 
security.  
 
 
Conclusion  
Repower’s  Green  SSD  framework  provides  clarity  regarding  use  of  proceeds and  the  outcomes  of  the 
investments. Repower’s Green SSD intends to refinance the company’s investments in renewable energy, 
which  is  recognized  by  the  GBP  as  an  eligible  green  project  category,  offering  clear  environmental 
benefits. In the context of Europe’s ‘Climate change and Energy’ priorities, Repower’s strategy and focus 
on  the  development,  acquisition,  operation  and  maintenance  of  wind  parks  and  hydropower  plants 
contribute  to  important  national  priorities  and  to  Europe’s  transition  to  a  low-carbon  economy. 
Furthermore, in Sustainalytics’ view, Repower’s approach to present allocation reporting based on the 
end-of-year book value of the eligible assets provides increased transparency to investors. 
  
Based on the above, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Repower’s Green SSD is credible, robust and in 
line with the GBP.  
 

 

 
7 https://ec.europa.eu/info/european-semester/framework/europe-2020-strategy_en.  
8 Swiss climate policy (http://www.bafu.admin.ch/klima/13877/14510/index.html?lang=en). 
9 http://www.bfe.admin.ch/pursuesenergiestrategie2050/index.html?lang=en. 

 

 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

APPENDICES 
 
Appendix 1: Documents reviewed 
 
Sustainalytics reviewed the following documents for the purposes of writing this report 
 

Number 
1 

2 

3 
4 
5 
6 

 
 
 

Document Name 
Analysis of 2007-2012 Repower renewable energy projects  
Nachhaltigkeit – Projekte bei Repower - Analyse der Jahre 2007 bis 2012 bzw. Status Quo 
2015 Repower Management Review for the certified management system for occupational safety 
and environment 
Repower occupational safety and environmental policy 
Repower 2015 Annual Report 
Repower at a Glance 
www.repower.com 

 

 

 

10 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Appendix 2: List of Eligible Projects (project portfolio) 
 
 

 Wind Parks 

Generation 
Capacity 
(MW) 

WKW Lucera 

26.0 

WKW Giunchetto 

30.0 

WKW Prettin 

WKW Lübbenau 

 

 

10.0 

16.0 

 

Hydropower Plants  Generation 

Capacity 
(MW) 

KW Taschinas  

11.5 

Annual 
production 
expected 
(GWh) 
56.0 

52.0 

19.0 

40.0 

 

Annual 
production 
expected 
(GWh) 
41.0 

KW Taschinas II*10  1.6 

 

Activity 

Participation 
Repower* 

Repower’s share 
on generation 
capacity (MW) 

Developed 

100% 

39% 

57% 

57% 

 

 

Co-developed 

Acquired 

Acquired 

 

Activity 

Participation 
Repower* 

Repower’s share 
on generation 
capacity (MW) 

26.0 

11.6 

5.7  

9.1  

6.6 

1.6 

Developed 

57% 

In 
development 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Repower  will  consider  the  book  value  of  the  eligible  projects  instead  of  initial  investment  costs  or 
acquisition value. As the book value is usually lower than the development value, using book value for 
acquired  assets  ensures  that  there  is  no  excess  of  funds  resulting  from  a  discrepancy  between 
development costs and acquisition value. Book values will match Repower’s participation in each project. 
 
* Note on Repower’s participation 
Repower offers Swiss utility companies the opportunity to participate in a diversified production portfolio. 
Since  January  1st,  2012,  the  production  company  Repartner  Produktions  AG  has  been  investing  in 
geographically and technologically diversified production capacities for this purpose. The shareholders of 
this company receive subscription rights from the generating facilities in which they invest, whereby they 
are  free  in  the  exploitation  of  the  subscription  rights.  This  gives  small  and  medium-sized  Swiss  utility 
companies  access  to  diversified  electricity  production.  A  maximum  of  49%  of  the  shares  in  Repartner 
Productions AG are open to energy companies. The  remaining 51% (minimum) is owned by Repower. 
Apart  from  Repower,  nine  partners  -  predominantly  Stadtwerke  -  are  also  involved  in  Repartner 
Produktions AG. 
 
The current electricity production for Repartner Produktions AG comes from Swiss hydroelectric power 
(Taschinas) and two wind parks in Germany (Lübbenau and Prettin). 
 

 

 
10 The book values for Taschinas II are not yet available, given that this plant is currently in development. 

 

 

11 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Appendix 3: Description of Eligible Projects 
 

1.  Lucera Wind Farm (Italy) 

The Repower windfarm in Lucera comprises 13 wind turbines with a capacity of 2 MW each. In total, the 
wind farm has an installed capacity of 26 MW. From that, an annual electricity production of 56 GWh can 
be expected. This corresponds roughly to the electricity requirements of a city with 12,000 households. 
Construction began in August 2011. By the end of September 2012 all wind turbines were in production 
and  commercial  start-up  took  place  in  November of  the  same  year.  The  ground  on  which the  farm  is 
located, lies in the south part of the town Lucera (about 35,000 residents), 200 meters above sea level in 
a  barely  populated,  predominantly  agricultural  area with  good  wind  conditions.  Repower  sees  further 
potential in the area where this wind farm is located. Repower has invested around 45 million euros in 
this project.  
 

2.  Giunchetto Wind Farm (Italy) 

The  wind  farm  has  35  wind  turbines,  each  with  a  potential  of  0.85  MW.  The  annual  wind  energy 
production is about 52 GWh. Repower has a 39% stake in this wind farm (11.6 MW). The completion of 
the farm took place in 2009, connection to the grid in the summer of 2010. The turbines are located at an 
altitude of 900 meters on the municipalities of Nicosia, Leonforte and Nissoria in the province of Enna. 
 

3.  Prettin Wind Farm (Germany) 

In May 2010, Repower acquired a wind farm in Prettin (in the southern Saxony-Anhalt on the Elbe), which 
consists of a total of 5 wind turbines, each with 2MW capacity. The plants in Prettin are in a region with 
good wind conditions and have been in operation since December 2006. The annual production of the 
acquired plants is about 19 GWh. This wind power plant is part of Repartner Produktions AG portfolio (see 
note in Appendix 2). Repower holds a participation of 57% for this asset. 
 

4.  Lübbenau Wind Farm (Germany) 

Also in May 2010, Repower took over the new wind farm of Lübbenau, which was put into operation in 
the same period with an installed capacity of 16 MW. The plant comprises 8 wind turbines, each with 
2MW capacity and the expected annual electricity production is around 40 GWh. Lübbenau is located in 
the district of Oberspreewald-Lausitz in the south of Brandenburg, about 25 kilometers west of Cottbus, 
where there are good conditions for generating electricity from wind power. This wind power plant is part 
of Repartner Produktions AG portfolio (see Appendix 2). Repower holds a participation of 57% for this 
asset.  
 

5.  Taschinas I hydropower plant (Switzerland) 

The hydropower station located in Prättigau, was connected to the electricity network in May 2011. It 
uses the hydro potential of the river Taschinas between the junction of river Cani with the Valser and 
Grüsch. The water is collected at an altitude of 1028m and led via a 3.2km long tunnel to the location of 
Plileisch. From this location, the water is transferred under pressure via a pipe to Kavernenzentrale (at 
640m). The nominal output of the electricity generation is 11.5 MW, the nominal voltage is 10.5 kV. The 
concession communities are: Fanas, Seewis i. Pr. and Grüsch.  
Taschinas  benefits  from  a  ‘KEV’  (Kostendeckende  Einspeisevergütung  =  cost  covering  feed-in 
remuneration). This was provided for 25 years and covers 12.2 Rappen/kWh approximately the effective 

 

 

12 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

production  cost.  This  hydropower  plant  is  part  of  Repartner  Produktions  AG  portfolio  (see  note  in 
Appendix 2). Repower holds a participation of 57% for this asset. 
 

6.  Taschinas II hydropower plant (Switzerland, in development) 

The powerstation Taschinas II (currently under development) will use the difference in altitude between 
the powerstation Taschinas I and the river Landquart to generate power. The planned installed capacity 
is  1.55  MW.  The  1550-meter-long  pressure  pipe  of  the  Taschinas  II  hydropower  plant  near  Grüsch  / 
Seewis, which was laid in 2010, is a wooden pressure pipe. Due to the low internal pressure it was chosen 
for a natural wood pipeline. The approx. 4.3 meters long and 150mm wide wooden boards were made of 
finely  knitted  pinewood  with  the  stone  rings  individually  on  the  construction  site.  These  were  then 
assembled by the employees directly on the spot. The plant is expected to start operating in 2018 or 2019. 
 
 

 

 

 

13 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

 
 
Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
 
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 
 

 

 

20 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

ABOUT SUSTAINALYTICS 
Sustainalytics is the largest independent provider of sustainability 
research, analysis, and services to investors. We serve over 250 
institutional investors which include some of the world's largest 
asset owners and asset managers. Through over 20 years of 
experience serving the responsible investment (RI) market, we have 
gained a reputation for providing high-quality ESG research 
solutions and excellent client service. 

Sustainalytics is headed by seasoned professionals in the field of 
business, finance, and sustainability, with a wealth of experience in 
the Responsible Investment area. After more than 20 years of local 
experience and expertise in the Responsible Investment (RI) market 
Sustainalytics has developed a comprehensive understanding of 
trends and best practices and a solid process to assist organisations 
in integrating ESG considerations into their policies and strategies. 
We have worked with some of the world’s financial institutions 
including pension plans, investment managers and banks providing 
customised support to help them achieve their RI objectives. Clients 
include ABN AMRO, APG, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank, ING 
Bank, Lombard Odier, Lloyds Bank, Triodos Bank, UBS and over 250 
other financial institutions and organisations. 

Sustainalytics now has a staff of 250 employees globally, including 
over 120 analysts, with operations in Amsterdam, Boston, 
Bucharest, Frankfurt, New York, Paris, London, Singapore, Sydney, 
Timisoara, and Toronto, and representation in Brussels and 
Washington DC. 

In 2015, Sustainalytics was named the 
Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm 
by GlobalCapital. In December 2014, for 
the third year in a row, Sustainalytics 
was named best sustainable and 
responsible investment research firm in 
the Independent Research in 
Responsible Investment (IRRI) Survey, 
conducted by Thomson Reuters and 
SRI-CONNECT.  

 

 

21 

