 SUMITOMO MITSUI 

FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.   

GREEN BOND 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

September 22, 2017 

Wakako Mizuta  (Tokyo) 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
Associate, Advisory Services 
wakako.mizuta@sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
(+81) 3 4589 4886 
 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
 
 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 

Trisha Taneja (Toronto) 

Associate, Advisory Services 
trisha.taneja@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 647 317 3695 
 
 
 
 

James Hawrylak (Tokyo) 

Director, Institutional Relations 
james.hawrylak@sustainalytics.com 
(+81) 3 4589 4886 

  

Manager,  

Advisory Services (Toronto) 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

1. 

Introduction 

2.  Overview of Issuer 

3.  Framework overview 
3.1  Use of Proceeds 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
3.3  Management of Proceeds 
3.4  Reporting 
3.5  Compliance Review 

4  Sustainalytics’ Opinion 

Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the SMFG Green Bond Framework 
Section 2: Sustainability Performance of the Issuer 
Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds 
Conclusion 

APPENDICES 

Appendix 1: Sustainalytics assessment of the strength of the Equator Principles 
Appendix 2: Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

3 

3 

4 
4 
5 
6 
6 
7 

8 
8 
10 
11 
13 

14 
14 
15 

22 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

1. INTRODUCTION  
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc. (SMFG) has developed a green bond framework (SMFG Green Bond 
Framework) under which it intends to issue a green bond the proceeds of which will be used to finance 
and  refinance  expenditures  related  to  renewable  energy,  energy  efficiency,  green  buildings,  clean 
transportation,  and  pollution  prevention  and  control.  SMFG  has  engaged  Sustainalytics  to  provide  a 
second  opinion  on  its  framework  and  the  framework’s  environmental  credentials.  As  part  of  this 
engagement, Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of SMFG’s management team to 
understand the sustainability impact of their business processes and planned use of proceeds, as well as 
management of proceeds and reporting aspects of the SMFG’s green bond framework. Sustainalytics also 
reviewed relevant public documents and non-public information.  
This  document  contains  two  sections:  Framework  Overview  –  summary  of  SMFG’s  Green  Bond 
framework; and Sustainalytics’ Opinion – an opinion on the framework. 
 
2. OVERVIEW OF ISSUER 
SMFG is a Japanese bank holding company and is one of the largest financial groups in the world, having 
been identified as one of the “global systemically important banks (G-SIBs)”. SMFG provides a broad range 
of financial services both in domestic and in overseas markets in Asia, U.S and Europe. In the conduct of 
its  business  activities,  SMFG  aims  to  contribute to  the  sustainable  development  of  society  by  offering 
higher added value to (1) customers, (2) shareholders and the market, (3) the environment and society, 
and (4) employees.  
 
SMFG identifies Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as the foundation of the business strategy, with a 
particular focus on “Environment”, “Next Generation” and “Community” as core components of its CSR 
activities. As for the core component “Environment”, SMFG has been engaged in  initiatives such as its 
environmental and project finance deals, including renewable energy projects across the globe. The group 
has  three  pillars  of  environmental  activities: 
ii)  managing 
environmental risk, and iii) promoting environmental business. 
 
With  regard  to  the  environment  initiatives  ii)  and  iii)  above,  Sumitomo  Mitsui  Banking  Corporation 
(SMBC), the group’s main operating bank, adopted the Equator Principles in 2005 and has set its internal 
procedures to assess the social and environmental risks arising from large-scale project finance. Based on 
this  environmental  risk  management  framework,  SMBC  extends  environmental  business  loans  and 
project  finance  loans, including loans for renewable energy projects   which are  diversified in terms of 
types  and area.  SMBC was named  the Sustainable Bank  of the  Year Asia 2013, making  SMBC the  first 
Japanese bank to receive this award. 
 
In order to accelerate  its environmental initiatives, SMBC  previously  issued a USD-denominated green 
bond in October 2015 – the first green bond offering by a Japanese private financial institution. SMFG is 
planning to issue another green bond to further finance lending to environmentally beneficial projects. 
While the issuing entity will be SMFG, the entity that will allocate lending to Eligible Green Projects will 
be  SMBC. The  criteria  for the  Eligible  Green  Projects  are outlined  in  the  Framework  Overview  section 
below. 

i)  reducing  environmental 

impact, 

 
 

3 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

3. FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 
For the purpose of issuing a Green Bond, SMFG has developed the following framework, which addresses 
the four key pillars of the Green Bond Principles (GBP): use of proceeds, project evaluation and selection 
process, management of proceeds, and reporting. 
 
3.1   Use of Proceeds 
The proceeds of the Green Bond will be allocated towards financing projects that meet the following 
eligibility criteria. 
 
3.1.1  Eligibility Criteria 
SMFG will extend an amount equal to the net proceeds from the sale of the SMFG Green Bond to SMBC 
as an inter-group loan. SMBC will apply the proceeds of such loan to finance, in whole (or in part), existing 
and future qualifying environment-related projects (“Eligible Green Projects”) as defined by the Group’s 
internal investment criteria, and the eligibility criteira, as specified below. 
 
In order to be an Eligible Green Project, a project must meet ALL of the following criteria: 
1.  The project is in one or more of the Project Categories (a) to (e) below; 
2.  The project is categorized as Category B or Category C under the Equator Principles as published by 

the Equator Principles Association, and; 

3.  The project is one which SMFG (or, SMBC, as the case may be) has agreed to lend to (a) during the 

24 months prior to the relevant issue date of a Green Bond or (b) after the issue date of a Green 
Bond but before the relevant maturity date of such bond. 

 
Project Categories 
Eligible Green Projects may include projects in one or more of the categories below. 
 

(A) RENEWABLE ENERGY 
The development, construction and operation of facilities that generate or transmit renewable 
energy, including: solar energy, wind energy, geothermal energy, biomass energy and small run-
of-river hydro facilities with generation capacity of 25 megawatts or less. 
 
(B) ENERGY EFFICIENCY 
Energy-conservation equipment, including, but not limited to, LED lighting, efficient HVAC 
(heating, ventilating, air conditioning), building insulation and energy demand control systems 
which improve energy efficiency.  
 
[Projects that meet category (c) below are excluded from category (b) in order to avoid double 
counting.] 
 
(C) GREEN BUILDINGS 
New  building  construction  or  existing  building  retrofits  which  meet  regional,  national  or 
internationally  recognized  third-party  verified  green  building  certifications,  such  as  “LEED” 
(Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design), “BREEAM” (Building Research Establishment 

4 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Environmental Assessment Methodology) or “CASBEE” (Comprehensive Assessment System for 
Built Environment Efficiency) to a level of at least “LEED Silver”, at least “BREEAM Very Good” or 
at least “CASBEE A Level”.  
 
(D) CLEAN TRANSPORTATION 
Expenditure  that  supports  the  shift  to  clean  energy  vehicles  (including  electric  vehicles  and 
supporting infrastructure) and the development, operation and upgrade of public transportation 
facilities (including improvement to rail transport, bicycles and other non-motorised transport).  
 
(E) POLLUTION PREVENTION & CONTROL 
Projects related to waste recycling and waste to energy. 

 

3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
Application of Eligibility Criteria in Project Selection 
SMFG’s CSR Department and Corporate Treasury Department worked together to establish the criteria 
for  Eligible  Green  Projects  mentioned above.  SMFG’s  Corporate  Treasury  Department  manages  green 
bond  funding  and  provides  the  net  proceeds  to  SMBC  in  a  form  of  senior  loan.  SMBC’s  International 
Treasury  Department and SMBC’s structured finance departments select projects that meet the eligibility 
criteria, and SMFG’s Corporate Treasury Department makes a final decision on the eligible project. Net 
proceeds of the green bond are to be allocated to selected eligible projects. 
 
Environmental Objectives 
SMFG is committed to incorporating CSR initiatives into its business strategy,1 and identifies three key CSR 
initiatives  that  are  important  to  the  company:2 Environment,  Next  Generation,  and  Community.  With 
respect  to  the  environmental  initiatives,  the  company’s  group  wide  environmental  policy3 is  aimed  at 
contributing to sustainable society with a focus on the preservation of the global environment. SMFG’s 
environmental  policy  has  laid  out  its  commitment  within  eight  pillars:  1)  promoting  environmental 
themed  products,  information  and  services,  2)  reducing  environmental  risks,  3)  Saving  resources  and 
energy  and  reducing  waste,  4)  complying  with  environmental  laws  and  regulations,  5)  disclosing 
environmental relevant information, 6) engaging with employees, 7) setting out objectives and goals each 
financial  year,  and  8)  disclosing  the  environmental  policy  on  its  corporate  website.  To  support  its 
environmental  policy,  the  company  also  identifies  the  priority  environmental  initiatives  including  the 
promotion  of  environmental  businesses.  The  SMFG  Green  Bond  Framework  contributes  to  pillar  1  of 
SMFG’s environmental policy.  
 
 
 

 
1 CSR at SMFG, Sumitomo Mitsui Finanial Group 
http://www.smfg.co.jp/english/responsibility/smfgcsr/ 
2 Key Priority Issues for SMFG, Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group 
http://www.smfg.co.jp/english/responsibility/issue/ 
3 http://www.smfg.co.jp/english/responsibility/environment/management/  

 
 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Process to Mitigate Environmental and Social Risks 
SMBC’s structured finance departments initiate an environmental screening process via an “Environment 
Screening Form” which is completed by SMBC’s structured finance departments and  further examined 
by SMBC’s Environment Analysis Department. The Environment Analysis Department assesses social and 
environmental  risk  of  relevant  projects,  and  categorize  projects  into  categories  A  (significant  risk),  B 
(limited risk), or C (minimal risk) in accordance with the Equator Principles.  
 
Findings  from  the  Environment  Analysis  Department’s  review  of  each  Project  Finance  transaction 
constitutes  an  important  component  of  the  decision-making  process.  Covenants  in  the  financing 
agreement will include environmental and social considerations as a result of review, and compliance will 
be  monitored  during  the  life  of  the  loan.  Should  a  project  fail  to  meet  the  required  standard  on 
environmental and social metrics, then SMBC would request for an improvement, as one of the financing 
banks. 
 

3.3        Management of Proceeds  
SMFG has established and implemented systems designed to monitor and ensure the allocation of net 
proceeds from the Green Bond will be transferred to SMBC via an inter-group loan and further allocated 
to Eligible Green Projects as defined above.  
 
Records will show an amount equal to the net proceeds from Green Bonds are allocated to assets that 
meet SMFG’s criteria of Eligible Green Projects. Pending allocation to finance Eligible Green Projects, net 
proceeds will be invested in overnight or other short-term financial instruments. In addition, any Green 
Bond  proceeds  allocated  to  projects  that  have  been  sold,  prepaid,  amortised  or  otherwise  become 
ineligible will be reallocated to other Eligible Green Projects. 
 
Payment of the principal and interest on the bond will be made from SMFG’s general funds and will not 
be directly linked to the performance of any of the Eligible Green Projects. 
 
3.4    Reporting  
Allocation Reporting 
During the term of  the  Green Bond  issued under this Framework, SMFG will provide and keep readily 
available, on a dedicated website, information on the allocation of the net proceeds, to be updated at 
least annually until full allocation and as necessary thereafter in the event of new developments. This 
information shall include: 
 

 

the  allocation  of  Green  Bond  proceeds  to  Eligible  Green  Projects,  detailing  the  Eligible  Green 
Projects funded, current funded amounts, initial funding dates and contractual maturity dates, 
and 

  assertions  by  management  that  the  net  proceeds  of  the  Notes  are  invested  [solely/either]  in 

qualifying Eligible Green Projects or in overnight or other short-term financial instruments. 

 

 
 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Impact Reporting 
In  addition,  where  feasible,  SMFG  will  annually  publish  on  a  dedicated  website  information  and 
assessments relating to the environmental impacts of financed Eligible Green Projects. The environmental 
impacts of financed Eligible Green Projects, where reported, may be calculated on a collective basis. This 
estimated environmental impact will be calculated in conjunction with support from The Japan Research 
Institute (JRI), a think tank subsidiary of the group. 
 
SMFG will report on the following metrics:  

  Tons of CO2 equivalent reduced 
  Metrics chosen upon category of financed Eligible Green Projects, such as tons of tons of waste 

treated and recycled 
 

3.5 Compliance Review 
Before the first anniversary of the Green Bond issuance, SMFG will engage Sustainalytics or any successor 
appointed by it, to review the lending financed by SMFG’s Green Bond in order to assess the compliance 
of the lending with the SMFG Green Bond Framework. This review will be conducted annually until full 
allocation of the net proceeds from the SMFG’s Green Bond. Sustainalytics will provide a report of the 
review,  which  SMFG will  publish  on  its  website.  In  an  unlikely  event that the  annual  review  identifies 
allocations  made  to  activities  that  do  not  comply  with  the  SMFG  Green  Bond  Framework,  SMFG  will 
allocate  the  corresponding  amounts  to  different  lending  activities  that  are  compliant  with  the  SMFG 
Green Bond Framework. 

 

 

 
 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

4  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
 
Section 1: Sustainalytics’ Opinion on the SMFG Green Bond Framework 
Summary  
Overall, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the SMFG Green Bond Framework creates meaningful 
impact,  is  transparent,  and  aligns  with  the  Green  Bond  Principles  2017.  Some  considerations  in 
Sustainalytics’ assessment are listed below: 

  Renewable  Energy,  Clean  Transportation,  Energy  Efficiency,  Green  Buildings,  and  Pollution 
Prevention and Control are recognized by the 2017 Green Bond Principles as project categories 
with clear environmental benefit; 

  Sustainalytics recognizes that, in green finance, it is best practice to invest in buildings with LEED 
Gold and Platinum certification. However, given the importance of green real estate in Japan, and 
the context of buildings increasingly accounting for greater energy consumption, Sustainalytics is 
of the opinion that LEED Silver is sufficiently beneficial. However, Sustainalytics encourages the 
issuer to finance LEED Gold and Platinum buildings wherever possible; 

  SMFG’s disclosure and processes with respect to management of proceeds and project selection 

process are in line with market practices; 

  SMFG has committed to disclosing on quantitative impact indicators for projects funded through 

the SMFG Green Bond.  

 
Alignment with Green Bond Principles 2017: Sustainalytics has determined that the SMFG Green Bond 
Framework aligns with the four pillars of the Green Bond Principles 2017. For detailed information please 
refer to Appendix 2: Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form. 
 
Alignment with Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines 2017 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Japanese Green Bond Guidelines are in line with the ICMA Green 
Bond Principles. In addition, The Japanese Green Bond Guidelines communicate what an issuer should do 
to issue a credible green bond, and also highlight what an issuer is recommended to do. Sustainalytics 
assessed the alignment between the SMFG Green Bond Framework and the “should” items outlined in 
the Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines.  
 
 

ICMA Green Bond Principles and 
Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines, 20174 

1.  Use of Proceeds 

 

 

Alignment with GBP 
and with Japan’s 
Green Bond 
Guidelines? 
Yes 

Sustainalytics’ comments on alignment with 
Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines.5 

Eligible project categories ( Renewable 
Energy, Energy Efficiency, Green Buildings, 
Clean Transportation, and Pollution 
Prevention and Control) in the SMFG Green 

 
4 Green Bond Guidelines, 2017, Summary, Ministry of the Environment, Japan; 

https://www.env.go.jp/en/policy/economy/gb/summary2017.pdf  

5 For detailed comments on alignment with ICMA GBP, please see Appendix 2. 

8 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

2.  Process for Project Evaluation and 

Yes 

Selection 

 

3.  Management of Proceeds 
 

Yes 

4.  Reporting 
 

Yes 

 
 
 
 

 
 

Bond Framework are outlined with clear 
details and are recognized by Japan’s Green 
Bond Guidelines as providing clear 
environmental benefit. SMFG also identifies 
social and environmental risk (any potential 
negative impact) associated with the eligible 
projects, and explains how they manage the 
risk through the application of the Equator 
Principles.  
SMFG’s framework well describes 
information, required by Japan’s Green Bond 
Guidelines, on 1) “Environmental 
sustainability objectives” (In this report: 
Environmental Objectives), 2) “Criteria” for 
evaluating and selecting specific green 
projects (in this report: “Eligibility Criteria” 
and “Application of Eligibility Criteria in 
Project Selection”), and 3) “Process” to 
evaluate and select eligible green projects (In 
this report: “Process to Mitigate 
Environmental and Social Risks” and 
“Application of Eligibility Criteria in Project 
Selection”).  
SMFG’s framework clarifies that SMFG 
manages proceeds by 1) keeping the list of all 
Eligible Green Project loans based on SMFG’s 
internal loan data system, 2) recoding the 
amount of the allocated and unallocated 
proceeds (which will be invested in short-
term financial instruments) to match to the 
total proceeds allocated by the green bond, 
and 3) making sure that the proceeds are 
tracked and managed, which are all followed 
by Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines.  SMFG 
explains this to green bond investors.  
SMFG’s framework clearly commits to 
disclose the five items annually, which are 
required by Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines: 
List of projects that have been allocated, brief 
description of projects, amount allocated, 
environmental benefits, and information on 
unallocated proceeds. 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Section 2: Sustainability Performance of the Issuer  
 
Contribution of framework to SMFG’s sustainability strategy 
SMFG states that its CSR is the foundation for SMFG’s business strategies.6 SMFG manages its CSR strategy 
based on its CSR policy and three material issues: “Environment”, “Next Generation” and “Community.” 
In addition, SMFG sets out an environmental vision and policy, as well as key environmental initiatives 
which  aim  to  preserve  and  improve  the  global  environment  though  its  core  business  activities. 7 As 
described  in  the  SMFG  Green  Bond  Framework,  SMFG’s  environmental  policy  has  eight  pillars. 
Sustainalytics’ ESG research assesses SMFG as having a strong policy as (i) the policy is approved by senior 
management or the board of directors, (ii) the company reports regularly on environmental issues, and 
(iii) the company commits to monitoring its environmental performance.  
 
SMFG’s policy is also integrated in its business activities as SMFG states that it promotes environment-
themed  products  and  services.  For  example,  SMFG,  through  its  group  companies,  has  provided 
environment-themed  financial  products  and  services  such  as  environmental  assessment  loans,  and 
project finance for renewable energy businesses. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the integration of 
SMFG’s environmental policy in its business activities could be strengthened by adding quantitative and 
timebound  targets  with  respect  to  promoting  environmentally  impactful  products  and  financing 
environmentally impactful projects. 
 
Overall, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that SMFG has a strong environmental policy that is integrated in 
its business activities, and the SMFG Green Bond Framework contributes to pillar 1 of the environmental 
policy, “promoting environmental themed products, information and services.” 
 
Well positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated with the projects 
Overall, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that SMFG  is well positioned to manage key environmental and 
social risks associated with the SMFG Green Bond projects. Some key environmental and social risks 
associated with projects are utilization of viable forest or food products as biomass, and worker safety 
and pollution control in construction and development projects. The strength of SMFG’s risk 
management is based on the following: 
 

  SMFG has stated to Sustainalytics its commitment not to use viable forest and food products as 
biomass for energy production. Sustainalytics encourages SMFG to formalize this commitment in 
its framework.  

  The  Equator  Principles  (EP),  which  apply  to  four  financial  products  including  project  finance, 
project related corporate loans, are commonly widely accepted as credible standard and widely 
used  by  worldwide  financial 
is  committed  to  assessing  social  and 
environmental risk of relevant  projects  based  on  EP, which demonstrates  its robust  system to 

institutions.  SMFG 

 
6 CSR at SMFG, Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group 
http://www.smfg.co.jp/english/responsibility/smfgcsr/ 
7 Promoting Environmental Businesses, Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group 
http://www.smfg.co.jp/english/responsibility/environment/business/ 

 
 

10 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

contribute to environment and social risk mitigation. For a detailed assessment of the strength of 
the EPs, see Appendix 1.  

  The  Environment  Analysis  Department  assesses  social  and  environmental  risk  of  relevant 
projects,  and  categorize  projects  in  accordance  to  the  Equator  Principles.  Covenants  in  the 
financing agreement will include environmental and social considerations as a result of review, 
and compliance to the EPs will be monitored during the life of the loan. 

 
Section 3: Impact of Use of Proceeds  
Impact of renewable energy in Japan  
The energy self-sufficiency ratio of Japan is  low especially compared to OECD countries8, in which Japan 
imports about 84% of energy.9 The energy source that Japan heavily depended on before the Great East 
Japan Earthquake in 2011 was nuclear power which Japan had set as a national strategic priority since 
1973.10 However,  it  became  necessary  for  Japan  to  revise  its  energy  mix  and  strategic  plan  after  the 
country experienced an accident at Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Plan and subsequent shutdown of nuclear 
plants across Japan due to residents’ concerns. In the new strategic plan, the target of renewable energy 
including wind, solar, geothermal, biomass and hydro is set at 22-24% by 2030 – a significant increase 
from 1.1% before the earthquake. Given the Japan’s small ratio of energy self-sufficiency and national 
strategic plan to tackle the global warming through the promotion of renewable energy, it is clear that 
the demand in renewable energy will increase and there will be growing needs to finance  the construction 
and operation renewable energy facilitates in Japan. As well, given the COP22 targets and commitments, 
and the need for a global transition to a low-carbon economy, there is also a clear need for promoting the 
development of renewable energy projects globally. 
 
Importance of green real estate in climate change mitigating in Japan 
According  to  Japan’s  Ministry  of  Land  Infrastructure,  Transport  and  Tourism, 11  meeting  the  energy 
demand  has  become  increasingly  challenging  since  the  Great  East  Japan  earthquake.  In  addition,  the 
energy consumption from building sector has been significantly increasing, and the building sector itself 
consists of one third of whole energy use in Japan.12 Because of the growing demand and consumption of 
energy from the building industry, the government places an emphasis on the building energy efficiency 
while reestablishing the new Building Energy Efficiency Act in 2017, in which the construction of certain 
size of buildings are required to meet the energy efficiency standards or notify the administrative agency 

 
8 Japan's Energy, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry Agency for Natural Resources and Energy, Japan 
http://www.enecho.meti.go.jp/en/category/brochures/pdf/japan_energy_2016.pdf 
9 Nuclear Power in Japan, World Nuclear Association 
http://www.world-nuclear.org/information-library/country-profiles/countries-g-n/japan-nuclear-power.aspx 
10 Nuclear Power in Japan, World Nuclear Association 
http://www.world-nuclear.org/information-library/country-profiles/countries-g-n/japan-nuclear-power.aspx 
11 Overview of the Act on the improvement of Energy Consumption Performance of Buildings (Building Energy Efficiency Act), Ministry of Land 

Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, Japan 

https://www.mlit.go.jp/common/001134876.pdf 
12 Overview of the Building Energy Efficiency Act, Ministry of Land Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, Japan 
http://www.mlit.go.jp/common/001178846.pdf 

 
 

11 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

with jurisdiction if the requirement cannot be met.13 In Addition, as part of the Japan’s plan to achieve its 
commitments on  CO2  targets for Paris Agreement, the  government promotes the  conformity with the 
energy  efficiency  standards  set  by  the  Act  along  with  other  initiatives  including  the  growth  of  green 
building certification system such as CASBEE.14 Given the above context, there is a clear need in Japan for 
buildings to be energy efficiency,  reflected in the significant consumptions and priority set by a national 
strategy.  
 
Therefore, Sustianalytics is of the opinion that SMFG’s green bond’s contribution in meeting the need to 
finance  renewable  energy  and  green  building  projects  in  Japan,  will  result  in  positive  environmental 
outcomes. 
 
Alignment with/contribution to SDGs 
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were set in September 2015 and form an agenda for achieving 
sustainable development by the year 2030. This green bond advances the following SDG goals and targets:  
 

SDG 

SDG target 

7.2  By  2030,  increase  substantially  the  share  of 
renewable energy in the global energy mix 
13.3  Improve  education,  awareness-raising  and 
human  and  institutional  capacity  on  climate 
change  mitigation,  adaptation,  impact  reduction 
and early warning 
9.1  Develop  quality,  reliable,  sustainable  and 
resilient  infrastructure,  including  regional  and 
trans-border infrastructure, to support economic 
3.9 By 2030, substantially reduce the number of 
deaths  and  illnesses  from  hazardous  chemicals 
and  air,  water  and 
soil  pollution  and 
contamination 

Use of Proceeds 
Category 
Renewable Energy 

Green Buildings 

7. Affordable and Clean 
Energy 
13. Climate Action 

Clean Transportation 

9.  Industry,  Innovation 
and Infrastructure 

Pollution  prevention 
and control 

3.  Ensure  healthy  lives 
and promote well-being 
for all at all ages 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
13 Overview of the Act on the improvement of Energy Consumption Performance of Buildings (Building Energy Efficiency Act), Ministry of Land 

Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, Japan 

https://www.mlit.go.jp/common/001134876.pdf 
14 Plan for Global Warming Countermeasures (Japanese), Ministry of Environment, Japan 
https://www.env.go.jp/press/files/jp/102816.pdf 

12 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Conclusion 
The SMFG Green Bond Framework is transparent and provides clarity regarding the use of proceeds and 
the  expected  outcomes  of  the  green  bond  investments.  Renewable  energy,  Energy  Efficiency,  Green 
Buildings, Clean Transportation, and Pollution Prevention and Control are included in the GBP and Japan’s 
Green  Bond  Guidelines  2017  as  an  eligible  green  project  categories  that  offer  clear  environmental 
benefits.  Additionally,  SMFG’s  project  selection  process  is  based  on  external  standards  such  as  the 
Equator Principles. This  ensures  that  projects  funded  through  bond  proceeds  have  minimal or  limited 
adverse environmental or social impacts. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the SMFG Green Bond aligns 
with the four pillars of the GBP 2017, and Japan’s Green Bond Guidelines 2017.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

13 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

APPENDICES 
Appendix 1: Sustainalytics assessment of the strength of the Equator Principles 
 
SMFG adheres to the Equator Principles (EPs) to ensure that the projects it finances are developed and 
operate in accordance with international environmental and social standards. In Sustainalytics’ view, the 
credibility of the EP as a risk management tool for large-scale projects derives from its ability to ensure:  
 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

A mandatory review of all projects with respect to their level of impact in a comprehensive 
range of environmental and social areas  
Principle 1 of the EP mandates a review and categorisation of all projects as having significant 
(Category A), limited (Category B), or minimal (Category C) environmental and social impact. 
Impact  is  assessed  on  the  eight  IFC  Performance  Standards  on  Environmental  and  Social 
Sustainability. These cover a wide range of issues to address environmental and social risk, 
including  management  of  environmental  and  social  impacts,  community  health,  resource 
efficiency and pollution prevention, and labour conditions.  
 
Strong mitigation process for projects with significant or limited adverse environmental and 
social impact  
The  EPs  (specifically Principles  2-6)  also  require  all15
 Category  A  and  B  projects  to  conduct 
environmental  and  social  impact  assessments,  develop  and  maintain  environmental 
management  systems,  demonstrate  effective  stakeholder  engagement,  and  establish  a 
grievance  mechanism  to  address  concerns  around  the  project’s  environmental  and  social 
performance. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the above mentioned components combine 
to form a strong overall process for mitigating impacts throughout the life of project.  
 
Continuous independent assurance of a project’s environmental and social impact 
Principle  7  of  the  EP  require  that  Category  A  and  as  appropriate,  Category  B  projects  are 
subject to an independent review to assess the strength of the mitigation processes outlined 
above, and to assess compliance with the EP. Additionally, Principle 9 of the EP also requires 
the appointment of an independent environmental and social consultant to verify ongoing 
monitoring and reporting of project impacts. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
15 Please note that for projects implemented in a set list of ‘Designated Countries,’ compliance with host country laws meets these mitigation 
requirements. This is because these countries are assessed as having robust environmental and social governance, legislation systems and 
institutional capacity designed to protect their people and the natural environment.  

14 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics  is  an  independent  ESG  and  corporate  governance  research,  ratings  and  analysis  firm 
supporting  investors  around  the  world  with  the  development  and  implementation  of  responsible 
investment  strategies. With 13 offices globally, Sustainalytics partners with institutional investors who 
integrate  environmental,  social  and  governance  information  and  assessments  into  their  investment 
processes.  Today,  the  firm  has  more  than  300  staff  members,  including  170  analysts  with  varied 
multidisciplinary  expertise  of  more  than  40  sectors.  Through  the  IRRI  survey,  investors  selected 
Sustainalytics as the best independent responsible investment research firm for three consecutive years, 
2012 through 2014 and in 2015, Sustainalytics was named among the top three firms for both ESG and 
Corporate Governance research. The firm was also named the Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
Global Capital in 2015. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com  
 
Sustainalytics 
info@sustainalytics.com  
www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

22 

