 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK 

LIMITED  

SOCIAL BOND 

 

 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

March 15th, 2017  

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 

Trisha Taneja (Toronto) 

Catalina Secreteanu (Sydney) 

Advisor, Advisory Services 
trisha.taneja@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 647 317 3695 

Associate Director, Institutional Relations 
catalina.secreteanu@sustainalytics.com 
(+61) 2 8015 5651 

 
 

 
 

Vikram Puppala  

Vikram Puppala  

© Sustainalytics 2017 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

1.  Preface 

2. 

Introduction 

3.  Framework Overview 

3.1  Use of Proceeds 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
3.3  Management of Proceeds 
3.4  Reporting 

4  Sustainalytics’ Opinion 

Conclusion 

ANNEXES 

Annex 1: Alignment with Green Bond Principles 
Annex 2: Employer of Choice for Gender Equality (EOCGE) Citation Criteria 
Annex 3: Sustainalytics’ Controversy Assessment Methodology 
Annex 4: NAB’s Overall ESG performance (as assessed by Sustainalytics) 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

3 

3 

4 
4 
5 
6 
6 

8 
11 

12 
12 
18 
19 
19 

21 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

1. PREFACE 
National Australia Bank Limited (NAB) is planning to issue a social bond to finance lending to organisations 
that  are  leaders  in  fostering  workplace  gender  equality  in  Australia  (Social  Bond).  NAB  has  engaged 
Sustainalytics to provide a second opinion on its Social Bond issuance and the bond’s social credentials. 
As  part  of  this  engagement,  Sustainalytics  held  conversations  with  various  members  of  NAB’s 
management team to understand the social impact of its lending and planned use of proceeds for the 
Social Bond issuance. Sustainalytics also reviewed relevant public and internal documents, including the 
methodology for the Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA) Employer of Choice for Gender Equality 
citation, which determined the eligibility criteria for the Social Bond proceeds. This document contains 
two sections: Framework Overview – a summary of the NAB Social Bond framework; and Sustainalytics’ 
Opinion – an opinion on the framework. 
 
2. INTRODUCTION 
The NAB Group is an international financial services group, that provides a comprehensive and integrated 
range  of  financial  products  and  services,  with  over  10  million  customers  and  approximately  35,000 
employees, operating approximately 1,000 branches and banking centres globally. The majority of the 
NAB Group's financial services businesses operate in Australia and New Zealand, with branches located in 
Asia, the United Kingdom and the United States. NAB was incorporated on 23 June 1893. 
 
On its website,  NAB states  that its  approach to corporate responsibility  has the  objective of  “creating 
shared  value  for  all  stakeholders.”  NAB  defines  shared  value  as  generating  financial  returns  for 
shareholders,  and  contributing  to  environmental  sustainability  and  positive  impact  for  employees, 
communities,  and  customers.  This  corporate  responsibility  approach  is  reflected  in  NAB’s  responsible 
business management activities, and activities that support the community. NAB describes its responsible 
business management activities as those that manage the Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) 
risks  of  its  business  operations,  such  as  supply  chain  management,  stakeholder  engagement,  and 
maintaining a diverse and inclusive workforce.  
 
With  regards  to  maintaining  a  diverse  and  inclusive  workforce,  NAB  states  a  specific  commitment  to 
“being  accountable  when  it  comes  to  gender  equality  in  the  workplace.”  It  cites  mentorship  and 
networking programs for women in business, flexible working arrangements, and the implementation of 
a  domestic  violence  support  policy  as  examples  of  initiatives  aimed  to  foster  gender  equality  in  the 
workplace.  
 
In line with its approach to corporate responsibility, and to further promote gender equality in Australian 
workplaces,  NAB  is  planning  to  issue  a  social  bond. The  Social  Bond will  fund  organisations  that  have 
demonstrated  leading  practices  to  foster  gender  equality  in  Australian  workplaces.    All  organisations 
funded must be eligible as per the Use of Proceeds criteria described in the NAB Social Bond Framework 
(Framework). The Framework is aligned with the International Capital Market Association (ICMA)’s Social 
Bond Guidance and Green Bond Principles (GBP). Combined, the Social Bond Guidance and GBP speak to 
the  social  impact  of  the  Social  Bond  proceeds  and  to  transparency  around  the  selection  process, 
management of proceeds and allocation and impact reporting.  

 
 

3 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

3. FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 

3.1  Use of Proceeds 
Eligibility Criteria: The WGEA Employer of Choice Citation 
Social Bond proceeds will be used by NAB to lend to organisations that have been awarded the Employer 
of  Choice  for  Gender  Equality  citation  (EOCGE)  by  the  Workplace  Gender  Equality  Agency  (WGEA). 
Organisations that have received the EOCGE citation are recognised by the WGEA as having demonstrated 
leading practices that promote the achievement of gender equality in Australian workplaces. 
 
The WGEA is an Australian government statutory agency created by the Workplace Gender Equality (WGE) 
Act 2012. The agency is charged with promoting and improving gender equality in Australian workplaces. 
It does so by working with employers to facilitate compliance with the reporting requirements under the 
Workplace  Gender  Equality  Act  2012.  The  WGEA  also  awards  the  EOCGE  citation  to  recognize 
organisations that have demonstrated leading practices that promote the achievement of gender equality 
in Australian Workplaces. The  EOCGE citation  assesses  organisations  on 7 criteria, where  each criteria 
contains  pre-requisite  indicators  that  demonstrate  leading  practice  in  the  area  of  workplace  gender 
equality. While generally aligned with the reporting criteria of the Workplace Gender Equality Act, the 
EOCGE citation requires organisations to demonstrate practices and commitments that are beyond legal 
requirements of the Act. Annex 2 provides summary details on the EOCGE citation criteria.  
 
Exclusionary Criteria 
NAB has developed a list of exclusionary criteria for the proceeds of this Social Bond. These are 
described below.  

1.  Social Bond proceeds will not be allocated to financing any organisations through the Social 
Bond proceeds, whose current principal industry and primary or predominant activities have 
been assessed by NAB as being one or more of the following:  

  Alcohol 
  Gambling 
  Tobacco 
  Military Weapons 
  Predatory Lending 
  Fossil Fuels 
  Palm Oil 
  Transport of live cattle 
  Whaling 

2.  Social  Bond  proceeds  will  not  be  allocated  to  financing  any  organisations  that  are  involved  in 
major environmental, social or governance controversies (Category 5 controversies), as assessed 
by  Sustainalytics.  Organisations  to  which  proceeds  have  been  allocated  will  be  assessed  by 
Sustainalytics for involvement in Category 5 controversies during the previous 12 months, as a 
part  of  an  annual  compliance  review.  On  an  annual  basis,  NAB  will  reallocate  funding  from 

4 

 

 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

identified  as  having 

organisations 
organisations.  
 
See Annex 3 for details on Sustainalytics’ controversy assessment methodology.  
 

involvement 

in  Category  5  controversies  to  eligible 

3.2   Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
Selection of Eligible Loans by NAB 
NAB will select organisations to finance and re-finance through Social Bond proceeds if the organisation 
has a current EOCGE citation from the WGEA. If there is a material change to the role, powers or functions 
of WGEA or the criteria for EOCGE citation, NAB may (having regard to the gender-equality alignment of 
the Social Bonds) identify an alternative agency or citation to succeed WGEA or the EOCGE citation (as 
applicable) for the purposes of identifying eligible borrowers.  Where NAB does not identify a successor 
agency or citation, it may include persons or entities to be eligible borrowers by reference to internal 
criteria for identifying persons or entities that are not inconsistent with the gender-equality alignment of 
the Social Bonds.   
 
WGEA  awards  the  EOCGE  citation  annually,  and  makes  the  complete  list  of  citation  holders  publicly 
available  on  its  website.    The  selection  of  eligible  loans  will  be  done  on  behalf  of  NAB  by  a  NAB 
Sustainability Investment Committee, comprised of members from NAB Treasury and NAB Institutional 
Banking, with input from NAB’s Capital Financing ESG team.   
 
WGEA Process for Selection of organisations for the EOCGE Citation 
Selection  of  organisations  for  the  WGEA  EOCGE  is  based  on  a  two  step  process  that  evaluates  an 
organisation’s: 

(i)  compliance  with  the  Workplace  Gender  Equality  Act  through  a  mandatory  reporting 

questionnaire; and  

(ii)  successful  meeting  of  two  sets  of  pre-requisite  indicators  that  determine  leading  practice  in 

promoting workplace gender equality.  

 
These pre-requisite indicators are assessed both in the legally required compliance questionnaire and the 
additional EOCGE citation questionnaire.  
 
As a first step, the WGEA administers the compliance questionnaire, a mandatory reporting questionnaire 
for all Australian organisations with over 100 employees. Organisations that meet a certain set of pre-
requisite indicators in the compliance questionnaire are then invited by the WGEA to apply for a EOCGE 
citation. These first set of pre-requisites in the compliance questionnaire are indicative of a minimum 
standard expected from organisations that wish to demonstrate leadership in fostering gender equality 
in the workplace.  
 
As a second step, if all compliance related pre-requisites have been met, organisations are automatically 
selected by the WGEA to complete the EOCGE questionnaire online and apply for the EOCGE citation. Not 
all organisations selected by the WGEA choose to apply for the citation. The EOCGE questionnaire covers 
a series of indicators under the seven criteria described in Annex 2. These indicators are assessed through 
questions in a survey format. While all questions require reporting, the EOCGE questionnaire includes a 

5 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

second set of pre-requisite indicators. These indicators are representative of leading practices expected 
from organisations that wish to demonstrate leadership in fostering gender equality in the workplace. As 
of  2016,  the  EOCGE  questionnaire  requires  76  such  indicators  that  demonstrate  leading  practices  in 
workplace  gender  equality.  Organisations  meeting  these  pre-requisites  are  also  required  to  provide 
substantiating  information  to  validate  their  claims.  All  organisations  that  have  fully  responded  to  the 
EOCGE questionnaire, and that meet the second set of leading practice pre-requisites are chosen by the 
WGEA as recipients of the EOCGE citation.  
 
For  a  full  list  of  both  sets  of  pre-requisite  indicators  that  an  organisation  must  meet  to  demonstrate 
leading practices in workplace gender equality, see the WGEA guide to the receiving the EOCGE citation: 
https://www.wgea.gov.au/sites/default/files/2016-EOCGE-Guide-to-citation.pdf  
 

3.3  Management of Proceeds  
Proceeds from the Social Bond will be directed to distinct cost centres, where each distinct cost centre 
represents a type of industry grouping that holds loans to EOCGE businesses. Within each cost centre, 
proceeds  will  be  directed  towards  identified  and  earmarked  EOCGE  businesses.  Eligible  organisations 
within each cost centre will be identified by tagging them with a note on the file. NAB confirms that its 
Specialised Transaction Management Team, or any successor thereafter, will prepare a quarterly report 
that serves as a control to monitor lending to eligible assets. The report lists the eligible counterparty and 
allocated amount by cost centre. Unallocated proceeds will be temporarily invested in a separate bank 
account,  cash,  bonds  issued  by  holders  of  the EOCGE  citation or  money market  instruments,  that are 
separate from the NAB Treasury’s General Funds pool.  
 
3.4   Reporting  
Allocation Reporting 
NAB confirms that it will, on an annual basis throughout the term of the Social Bond, disclose a list of 
organisations and businesses to which it is allocating proceeds, and the aggregate amount allocated. This 
list will include the borrower’s name, business description, business location, confirmation of the receipt 
of the WGEA Employer of Choice for Gender Equality citation, and gross portfolio size. This reporting will 
be published on the NAB website. NAB has confirmed that an external auditor will provide reasonable 
assurance that processes, policies and systems for managing NAB’s eligible lending from the Social Bond 
are in accordance with NAB’s Framework.  
 
Compliance Review 
In addition, NAB has committed to undertaking an annual compliance review of funded organisations with 
Sustainalytics.  Sustainalytics  will  review  all  organisations/borrowers  to  which  proceeds  have  been 
allocated, in order to determine whether they meet the eligibility criteria in the Framework. As a part of 
the annual compliance review, Sustainalytics will also undertake a review and analysis of organisations 
involvement  in  controversies.  Sustainalytics  will  provide  a  letter  stating  the  results  of  the  compliance 
review, which NAB may disclose publicly on its website. The compliance review will take place annually 
throughout the term of the Social Bond.  
 

 
 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Impact Reporting 
If  feasible,  NAB  intends  to  report  on  the  percentage  of  women  on  boards,  aggregated  to  an  average 
number  at  the  level of the  allocated  portfolio.  NAB  intends  to  disclose  this metric  on  an  annual  basis 
throughout the term of the Social Bond, on its website. If feasible, NAB will also develop case studies in 
collaboration with WGEA to highlight impact and a particular leading practice of an eligible organisation. 
If developed, such a case study would be publicly disclosed on NAB’s website.  
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

4  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
 
Advancing the U.N Sustainable Development Goals and aligning with Australian priorities 
The  UN  Convention  on  the  Elimination  of  all  Forms  of  Discrimination  Against  Women  (CEDAW)  was 
entered into force in September 1981 and signed by Australia in August 1983. In signing CEDAW, Australia 
committed itself to being a society that promotes policies, laws, organisations, structures and attitudes 
that  ensure  women  are  guaranteed  the  same  rights  as  men.  Since  signing  the  CEDAW,  Australia  has 
developed  many  mechanisms  for  implementing  the  rights  protected  under  the  Convention  Sex 
Discrimination Act 1984 (Cth) (SDA)1, which makes it unlawful to discriminate against someone on the 
basis of gender, sexuality, marital status, family responsibilities or because they are pregnant. The SDA 
has played an important role in changing public attitudes and helped advance gender equality in Australia.  
 
More  recently,  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  were  set  in  September  2015  and  form  an 
agenda for achieving sustainable development by the year 2030. These goals are widely considered to be 
the next step to the Millennium Development Goals (MDG), which were time-bound to 2015. Unlike the 
MDG’s, the SDGs emphasise the elimination of inequality and disparity in opportunity globally, in both 
developed and developing countries. In particular, SDG 5 ‘to achieve gender equality and empower all 
women and girls’ takes us far beyond the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and addresses many of 
the important barriers to advancing women’s human rights: the persistence of discriminatory laws and 
policies; alarming rates of violence against women and harmful practices; the lion’s share of unpaid care 
work carried out by women and girls; and the unacceptably low number of women in decision-making 
across all arenas, to mention a few. 
 
In Australia, a great deal of momentum on gender parity has been created through the private sector. A 
growing number of organisations are making policy changes, such as extending family and paternity leave 
and increasing the number of women in boardrooms. However, despite positive outcomes, Australia’s 
performance on the World Economic Forum’s global index measuring gender equality has steadily slipped 
from their rank in 2006 as 15th overall to 36th in 2015.2 
 
This drop in ranking is indicative of a need to further improve gender equality in Australia, especially given 
the context of its international obligations under CEDAW, and the global agenda for development set by 
the  SDGs.  By  financing  Australian  organisations  that  demonstrate  leading  practices  with  respect  to 
workplace gender equality, NAB’s lending as described in this framework plays a key role in advancing the 
Australian and global objective of achieving gender equality and empowerment for women. 
 
Well positioned to address gender inequality in Australian workplaces  
NAB is a leader within the banking industry in Sustainalytics’ Global Platform. The company ranks highest 
amongst  industry  peers  based  on  its  overall  ESG  rating,  is  a  leader  in  environmental  and  social 
performance, and an outperformer in the governance  category.  The company is notable for its  strong 
disclosure on Human Capital measures, including detailed information on workforce composition, training 
and employee engagement. As part of its reporting, the company discloses its remuneration by gender 
 
1 https://www.legislation.gov.au/Series/C2004A02868  
2 http://reports.weforum.org/global-gender-gap-report-2015/  

8 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

and position. Although the company notes that there is a gender pay gap, it has ongoing initiatives to 
reduce  and eventually eliminate the  gap. The company’s strong reporting is complimented by equally 
strong programmes to attract, retain and develop its employees. For example, the company has enhanced 
its benefits for new parents and increased its support for flexible work arrangements. Given its policies 
and  programmes  aimed  at  creating  greater  gender  equality,  and  given  its  industry  leading  ESG 
performance among its peers, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that NAB is well positioned to issue its first 
Social Bond in this area. 
 
Strength of the WGEA framework  
Sustainalytics  assessed  the  EOCGE  citation  framework  that  determines  eligibility  of  organisations  for 
funding  through  bond  proceeds,  and  determined  its  strengths  and  limitations.  Sustainalytics  is  of  the 
opinion that the EOCGE citation framework assesses organisations on criteria that are comprehensive and 
meaningful.  
 
The strength of the WGEA EOCGE framework derives from the following three factors:  
 

(i) 

The EOCGE citation uses criteria that are meaningful and assess workplace gender equality in 
a holistic manner 
 
The combination of results-based criteria and process-based criteria contained in the EOCGE 
citation ensure that it is a holistic measure of an organisation’s progress to create an equal 
workplace.  The  EOCGE  assesses  organisations  on  criteria  that  demonstrate  results  in 
achieving gender equality in the workplace, such as gender remuneration gap, and number 
of  women  in  leadership  positions.  The  citation  also  assesses  organisations  on criteria that 
demonstrate  the  organisation  has  processes  in  place  to  embed  gender  equality  in  the 
workplace  over  the  long  term.  Three  such  process  based  criteria  include  employee 
consultation, learning and development (for example, mentorship and career development 
programs for women), and flexible working arrangements.  
 
Most commonly, workplace gender equality is assessed solely through results based criteria, 
often using the number of women on boards or in senior management as the primary metric. 
However, results based metrics like the number of women in leadership positions serve only 
as  a  signal  that  the  organisation  could  have  an  inclusive  workplace  and  environment. The 
presence  of  women  in  leadership  positions  does  not,  by  itself,  imply  that  the  pathway  to 
leadership is equitable, and that there are processes in place to allow women to progress to 
leadership roles in a fair manner.  
 
Process  based  criteria,  on  the  other  hand,  play  an  important  role  in  establishing  equal 
opportunity in the workplace. Embedding processes, such as flexible working arrangements 
and mentorship programs, is key to ensuring an equal chance of advancement for both men 
and  women.  Such  processes  entrench  equal  opportunities  in  the  workplace,  and  are 
important to ensure progress towards results. For example, flexible working arrangements 
are  important  for  retention  of  women,  allowing  them  to  progress  to  senior  roles.  These 

 
 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

 

 

(ii) 

(iii) 

process-based criteria play a role in achieving results, like a high number women in leadership 
positions.  
 
Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  this  combination  of  results-based  and  process-based 
criteria ensures that EOCGE citation organisations are assessed on workplace gender equality 
in a comprehensive and meaningful manner.  

 
The EOCGE citation considers workplace gender equality an organisational priority through a 
focus on accountability and targets 
 
Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  level  at  which  organisations  assign  ultimate 
accountability for implementing their gender equality strategies, and the tracking of progress 
of these strategies, are indicative of the priority they assign to achieving results.  
 
The  EOCGE  citation  recognizes  the  importance  of  considering  workplace  gender  equality 
initiatives  as  an  organisational  business  priority.  The  citation  assesses  if  accountability  for 
workplace  gender  equality  lies  with  an  organisation’s  board,  CEO,  executive  or  senior 
managers.  It  also  assesses  organisations  on  internal  targets  and  monitoring  of  progress 
against those targets. Organisations that receive an EOCGE citation must demonstrate that 
workplace  gender  equality  is  an  organisational  priority  through  having  a  formal  policy  to 
support  gender  equality,  assigning  responsibility  for  the  implementation  of  that  policy  to 
senior  leadership,  having  the  CEO  be  a  visible  champion  of  gender  equality,  and  tracking 
progress on workplace gender equality internally. In Sustainalytics’ opinion, this is a strength 
of the EOCGE framework.  
 

The WGEA annually reviews and strengthens the EOCGE framework 
 
WGEA regularly reviews the pre-requisites for achieving the EOCGE citation to assess if they 
are  reflective  of  leading  practices  in  gender  equality.  The  WGEA  also  annually  makes 
amendments  to  these  pre-requisites  in  line  with  new  legislation  and  constantly  evolving 
industry best practices. For example, 10 new pre-requisites were added to achieve the EOCGE 
citation in 2016. This ensures that the eligibility criteria for achieving the EOCGE citation is 
constantly  strengthening,  and  that  the  bar  for  demonstrating  leading  practices  in  gender 
equality  is  continually  being  raised.  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  such  self-
strengthening criteria is indicative of best-practice, and is an important strength of the EOCGE 
framework.  
 

The WGEA EOCGE framework also has certain limitations. One such limitation is that it is not possible to 
assess if EOCGE citation organisations align with a traditional ‘best-in-class’ approach. WGEA does not 
track  the  ratio of organisations  that apply for the  EOCGE citation to those that apply  and successfully 
achieve  the  citation.  Additionally,  it  can  be  challenging  to  understand  sustained  impact  at  the 
organisational  level,  as  WGEA  does  not  systematically  track  how  often  an  organisations  achieves  the 

 
 

10 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

EOCGE citation. Since application for the EOCGE citation is partly voluntary, and the criteria are continually 
evolving, the loss of citation from one year to the next may not be indicative of failing standards. Finally, 
the WGEA also does not track if organisations achieve the EOCGE citation through just meeting the pre-
requisites in the citation application form, or through going above and beyond these required elements. 
While the EOCGE pre-requisites themselves are beyond legal compliance, organisations that have gender 
equality  initiatives  that  go  beyond  even  the  leading  practice  pre-requisites  are  not  identified. Despite 
these  limitations,  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  EOCGE  citation  is  robust,  and  meaningfully 
identifies organisations that have leading practices in workplace gender equality.  

 

Alignment with the Social Bond Guidance and GBP 2016  
NAB’s Social Bond is in alignment with the Social Bond Guidance with respect to Use of Proceeds, and 
with the GBP pillars of Project Selection Process, Management of Proceeds, and Reporting.  Please see 
Annex 1 for more details.  
 
Conclusion  
Sustainalytics’  assessment  of  the  WGEA  EOCGE  citation  concludes  that  the  Social  Bond’s  eligibility 
criterion and the process to award the EOCGE citation is robust, and meaningfully identifies organisations 
that have leading practices in workplace gender equality. The use of proceeds clearly seeks to achieve 
positive outcomes as described in the Social Bond Guidance, and to advance the Sustainable Development 
Goals. Additionally, NAB’s intention to transparently report on impact is aligned with market best practice. 
Based on the above considerations, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that NAB’s Social Bond Framework is 
credible, and will help to encourage greater workplace gender equality in Australia.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 

11 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Annex 2: Employer of Choice for Gender Equality (EOCGE) Citation Criteria 
 

EOCGE criteria 

Definition of criteria 

Reporting on 
criteria required 
by WGE Act? 

Leadership, 
accountability, 
and focus 

This criterion assesses an organisation’s overall 
strategies, policies and processes to achieve 
gender equality. 

Learning and 
development 

Gender 
remuneration 
gaps 

Flexible working 
arrangements 

Employee 
consultation 

Preventing sex-
based harassment 
and 
discrimination  

Targets for 
improving gender 
equality 
outcomes 

 

This criterion assesses an organisation’s learning 
and development strategies, policies and 
processes aimed at building capability throughout 
the organisation, as well as having career 
development and leadership programs in place 
for women and men. 
This criterion assesses an organisation’s policies, 
strategies and processes to address gender 
remuneration equity and show progress in closing 
any gender remuneration gaps over time. 
This criterion assesses an organisation’s policies, 
strategies and processes to encourage the use of 
flexible working arrangements for women and 
men at all levels of the organisation. 
This criterion gives an indication of an 
organisation’s culture in relation to gender 
equality using feedback from workers via 
anonymous survey questions. 
This criterion assesses the way an organisation 
educates all workers (including casual and 
contract staff) on their rights and obligations 
regarding sex-based harassment and 
discrimination, with the aim of eliminating sex-
based harassment and discrimination in the 
workplace and promoting an inclusive culture 
through education and skills-based training. 
This criterion assesses whether an organisation 
has set specific, measurable, achievable and time-
framed numerical targets where the 
representation of women in management and on 
its governing body/board (where the organisation 
has control over governing body/board 
appointments) is less than forty per cent. 

Yes 

No 

Yes 

Yes 

Yes 

Yes 

Yes 

 

 
 

How is the EOCGE 
criteria beyond legal 
compliance? 
Reporting on leading 
practice indicators in 
criteria is beyond legal 
compliance. 
 
Reporting on criteria 
is beyond legal 
compliance. 

Reporting on leading 
practice indicators in 
criteria is beyond legal 
compliance. 
Reporting on leading 
practice indicators in 
criteria is beyond legal 
compliance. 
Reporting on leading 
practice indicators in 
criteria is beyond legal 
compliance. 
 
Reporting on leading 
practice indicators in 
criteria is beyond legal 
compliance. 

 
Reporting on leading 
practice indicators in 
criteria is beyond legal 
compliance. 

18 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Annex 3: Sustainalytics’ Controversy Assessment Methodology 
 
Controversies are an assessment of a company’s past involvement in incidents that had a negative impact 
on  stakeholders,  and  that  pose  outstanding  risks  to  the  company.  Sustainalytics  analyses  companies’ 
involvement in controversies based on several factors, including impact of the incident, recurrence and 
pattern  of  incidence,  company  response,  and  managerial  responsibility.  After  analysis,  companies’ 
involvement in controversies is classified on a hurricane scale of 1 to 5. Controversies are assessed as 
Category 1 if they have a low impact on the environment and society, and pose negligible risks to the 
company. Controversies are assessed as Category 5 if they have a severe impact on the environment and 
society, and pose a serious risk to the company. Category 5 represents the most severe corporate conduct.  
 
 
Annex 4: NAB’s Overall ESG performance (as assessed by Sustainalytics)  
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

19 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

20 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics  is  an  independent  ESG  and  corporate  governance  research,  ratings  and  analysis  firm 
supporting  investors  around  the  world  with  the  development  and  implementation  of  responsible 
investment  strategies. With 13 offices globally, Sustainalytics partners with institutional investors who 
integrate  environmental,  social  and  governance  information  and  assessments  into  their  investment 
processes.  Today,  the  firm  has  more  than  300  staff  members,  including  170  analysts  with  varied 
multidisciplinary  expertise  of  more  than  40  sectors.  Through  the  IRRI  survey,  investors  selected 
Sustainalytics as the best independent responsible investment research firm for three consecutive years, 
2012 through 2014 and in 2015, Sustainalytics was named among the top three firms for both ESG and 
Corporate Governance research. The firm was also named the Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
Global Capital in 2015. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 
Sustainalytics 
info@sustainalytics.com  
www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

21 

