 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

DE NEDERLANDSE 

WATERSCHAPSBANK N.V. 

(NWB BANK) 
SOCIAL BOND  

 

 

SECOND OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

May 10th,  2017 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 

Vikram Puppala  

Manager,  

(+31) 20 205 0019 

 
 

Radoslav Georgiev (Amsterdam) 

Manager, Advisory Services 

rgeorgiev@sustainalytics.com 

Charlotte Peyraud (New York)  

Senior Advisor, Institutional Relations 

charlotte.peyraud@sustainalytics.com 

(+1) 646 518 0184 

Trisha Taneja (Toronto) 

Advisor, Advisory Services 
trisha.taneja@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 647 317 3695 

 
 

Vikram Puppala  

Manager,  

© Sustainalytics 2017 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

SECOND OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

1. 

Introduction 

2.  Overview of Issuer 

3  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 

Impact of Use of Proceeds: Importance of Social Housing in the Netherlands 
Sustainalytics’ Opinion on NWB’s Social Bond Framework 
Alignment with the ICMA Social Bond Guidance and Green Bond Principles 2016 

APPENDICES 

Appendix 1: Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

1 

3 

3 

4 
4 
5 
7 

8 
8 

15 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

1. INTRODUCTION 
De Nederlandse Waterschapsbank N.V. (NWB Bank) intends to issue social bonds and has developed a 
framework1 to guide the issuance of such bonds. The social bonds will refinance loans that fund social 
housing projects in the Netherlands. NWB has engaged Sustainalytics to provide a second opinion on its 
social bond framework and the bond’s social credentials.  

As a part of this engagement,  Sustainalytics held conversations with members of  NWB’s management 
team to understand the social impact of their planned use of proceeds under this social bond framework. 
Sustainalytics  also  reviewed  relevant  public  and  internal  documents  which  elaborate  on  the  eligibility 
criteria for the bond proceeds. This document contains Sustainalytics’ Second Party Opinion (SPO) - an 
opinion on the framework, and should be read in conjunction with the NWB Bank Social Bond framework.    

 
2. OVERVIEW OF ISSUER 
NWB Bank is a leading financial services provider for the public sector. The bank arranges short-term and 
long-term loans for water authorities, municipalities, provinces, social housing, healthcare, educational 
institutions,  public-private  partnerships  (PPP)  and  activities  in  the  field  of  water  supply  and  the 
environment. NWB Bank publishes annual integrated reports aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative 
Standards. NWB Bank has set up a CSR Committee which comprises a Managing Director. The Committee 
reports to the Managing Board of the bank. 

In  the  Netherlands  there  has  been  a  successful  implementation  of  social  integration  through  a  well-
established  infrastructure of  large  stocks  of affordable  housing  for  different  income  groups,  providing 
affordable, high-quality living for lower-income groups in the country. 

NWB is a large lender to Dutch Housing Associations’ social housing assets. NWB states in its social bond 
framework2 that it has an ambition to raise further awareness around the Dutch social housing system 
and initiate further investor interest for social housing in general. NWB will issue an Affordable Housing 
Bond to refinance lending for social housing. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
1 The framework will be published on the NWB Bank Investor Relations home page 
 

 

 

3 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

3  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
 

Impact of Use of Proceeds: Importance of Social Housing in the Netherlands 
 
Addressing a critical gap in affordable housing in the Netherlands 
Under  Dutch  regulations,  Dutch  municipalities  work with  housing  associations in  the  country  to  place 
applicants in social housing, prioritizing the most vulnerable groups. Social housing applicants are put on 
a waiting list. In 2015, the average waiting time for social housing in the Netherlands was eight years.3 In 
some cities waiting times significantly exceed the national average. For example, in 2015 in Purmerend 
applicants had to wait on average 21 years.4  
 
At the same time, data from the Dutch Statistics Bureau (CBS) shows that the number of new construction 
permits  issued  to  housing  associations  dropped  to  a  historic  low  of  around  6,000  homes  in  2014.5 
Approximately 125,000 new residential housing units will be put in use by 2020, including 85,000 units 
for  the  social  housing  sector.  However,  an  expected  increase  in  the  number  of  households  in  the 
Netherlands means that a growing shortage of affordable rental housing will remain unresolved in the 
near term, particularly in the urban areas of the country.6  
 
Those  most  affected  by  the  housing  shortage  are  the  most  economically  vulnerable  parts  of  the 
population. NWB’s social housing bond could thus play a key role in incentivizing the sufficient supply of 
long-term affordable social housing, particularly for those populations at the lower end of the income. 
Currently, the income distribution gap in the Netherlands remains relatively large with the top 20% of the 
Dutch population earning about four times as much as the bottom 20% (OECD data).7 
 
The bottleneck in social housing availability is further exacerbated by a migrant influx which, Europe is 
currently experiencing. In 2015, the Netherlands received 58,880 asylum applications, the biggest part 
from  refugees  escaping  war  in  Syria.8  By  contract,  between  2003  and  2012,  the  number  of  refugee 
applications did not exceed 17,000. NWB’s social housing bond will help address the growing need for 
affordable housing for  migrants, including those with a refugee status. 
 
Given this context, Sustainalytics is of the opinin that NWB’s social bond addresses a growing need for 
affordable  housing  for  vulnerable  populations  nation-wide.  The  NWB  Social  Bond  can  help  alleviate  a 
backlog of social housing applications and excessive waiting times, further worsened by an increase in 
refugee arrivals and a large income distribution gap in the Netherlands. 

 
3 RTL Nieuws, accessed April 18, 2017 from: https://www.rtlnieuws.nl/nieuws/binnenland/gemiddeld-acht-jaar-wachten-op-huurwoning 
4 RTL Nieuws, accessed April 18, 2017 from: https://www.rtlnieuws.nl/nieuws/binnenland/gemiddeld-acht-jaar-wachten-op-huurwoning 
5 Capital Value Research: Deman for Affordable Rented Housing in the Netherlands Remains High, accessed April 18, 2017 from: 
http://www.capitalvalue.nl/en/news/demand-for-affordable-rented-housing-in-the-netherlands-remains-high?news_id=245 
6 RTL Nieuws, accessed April 18, 2017 from: https://www.rtlnieuws.nl/nieuws/binnenland/gemiddeld-acht-jaar-wachten-op-huurwoning 
7 OECD Better Life Index, accessed April 17, 2017 from: http://www.oecdbetterlifeindex.org/countries/netherlands/ 
8 VluchtelingenWerk Nederland: Eerste Azielaanvragen Statistiek, accessed April 18, 2017 from: https://www.vluchtelingenwerk.nl/feiten-
cijfers/cijfers/bescherming-nederland 

 

 

4 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Advancing the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals  

The  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  were  set  in  September  2015  through  a  multi-stakeholder 
partnership, and form an agenda for achieving sustainable development by the year 2030. These goals 
are widely considered to be the next step to the Millennium Development Goals (MDG), which were time-
bound  to  2015.  Unlike  the  MDG’s,  the  SDGs  emphasize  the  elimination  of  inequality  and  disparity  in 
opportunity globally, in both developed and developing countries. In particular, SDG 11 ‘Sustainable Cities 
and  Communities’  and  SDG  1  ‘End  poverty  in  all  its  forms  everywhere’  have  targets  associated  with 
providing access to adequate, safe, and affordable housing for all, and ensuring equal rights to economic 
resources and basic services. Through allocating bond proceeds to lending to social housing assocations 
in  the  Netherlands,  NWB  Bank  is  directly  contributing  to  the  abovementioned  targets,  and  to  the 
advancement of the SDGs.  

 
Sustainalytics’ Opinion on NWB’s Social Bond Framework 

Sustainalytics assessed the NWB Bank framework, and determined its strengths and limitations. Overall, 
Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  NWB  Bank  framework  has  clear  social  impact  as  it  provides 
affordable housing to vulnerable populations, and addresses a critical gap in affordable housing in the 
Netherlands. 

The strength of the NWB framework derives from the following factors:  

  As per the NWB Social Bond framework, housing associations that qualify for loans from the NWB 
Social Bond proceeds must let their social housing to households with a maximum income of EUR 
35,739 per annum (as of 2016). This income threshold, which defines which households are low-
income and eligible for affordable housing, is defined by the Dutch Government.9 
 
Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  basing  the  definition  of  low-income  on  a  well  recognized 
external standard ensures that the social bond is credible with respect to targeting vulnerable 
populations.  
 

  The  NWB  Social  Bond  framework  has  also  defined  as  an  eligibility  criterion  that  housing 
associations  eligible  for  loans  must  cap  their  rental  prices  at  EUR  710.68  per  month.  In 
comparision, the average rent in the private market in Amsterdam in 2016 was above EUR 1,200 
per month.  Given this context, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that this threshold for rental prices 
ensures  that  rental  social  housing  funded  through  bond  proceeds  is  rented  at  below  average 
prices, and can be affordable for targeted populations.  
 

  The eligibility criteria of the NWB Social Bond framework also specify that only loans guaranteed 
by  the  Social  House-building  Guarantee  Fund  (WSW)  are  eligible  for  proceeds  from  the  NWB 
Social Bond. Based on conversations with NWB Bank, Sustainalytics understands that in order to 
qualify for a WSW guarantee certificate, housing associations must prove that they are letting 
80% of their social housing to low-income populations as defined by the Dutch Social Housing Act. 

 
9 Rijksoverheid: Voorwaarden voor sociale-huurwoning van een woningcorporatie, accessed April 18, 2017 from 
https://www.rijksoverheid.nl/onderwerpen/huurwoning/vraag-en-antwoord/sociale-huurwoning-voorwaarden 

 

 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  WSW  guarantee  certificate  acts  as  an  important 
mechanism to ensure that the expected impact of the proceeds (i.e. the availability of affordable 
housing to target groups) will be realized.  

  The NWB Social Bond framework states that it will qualify no more than  80% of their lending to 
the Housing Associations social housing stock as eligible assets for the Social Bond, despite the 
fact that 100% of NWB’s lending is to Dutch social housing assocations. NWB has stated that the 
reason for this is that some tenants might improve their living standards but continue living in the 
social housing funded by NWB. Given that there are limited mechanisms to monitor income levels 
of populations after they have qualified for and are living in social housing, Sustainalytics is of the 
opinion  that  qualifying  80%  of  social  housing  stock  as  eligible  is  an  important  mechanism  to 
ensure that proceeds are truly directed to the targeted group. 

 

 

 

The NWB Bank framework also has certain limitations. For example, in addition to the 80% qualification 
of loans described above, NWB eligibility criteria also define a threshold for percentage of housing stock 
let to low-income populations by recipients of eligible loans.  Housing associations that are recipients of 
loans  from  NWB  Social  Bond  Proceeds  do  not  let  100%  of  their  social  housing  stock  to  low-income 
populations (rather they must let 80% of their social housing stock to low-income populations).  
 
As per the Dutch Social Housing Act, housing associations generally provide housing to both middle- and 
low-income groups. As defined in the Dutch Social Housing Act, housing associations in the Netherlands 
must let: 

o  80%  of  social  housing  to  low-income  populations  (households  below  the  35,739  per  annum 

threshold, as defined in the framework) 

o  10% of social housing to middle-income populations (defined as households in the EUR 38,900-

40,900 per annum bracket)  

o  10% of social housing to special needs populations, regardless of income bracket. 

 
Given this constraint as set out by Dutch law, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that letting 80% of housing 
stock to low-income populations ensures that proceeds are allocated to renting social housing only to the 
most vulnerable populations, i.e. low-income populations and those in the ‘Special Needs Program.’ 
 
Another  limitation  is  that  the  NWB  Bank  framework  does  not  give  preference  to  lending  to  housing 
associations renting apartments in specific low-income or disadvantaged neighbourhoods. NWB Bank has 
disclosed  to  Sustainalytics  that  it  is  difficult  to  delineate  which  neighbourhoods  are  low-income  or 
disadvantaged.  
 
Sustainalytics  also  notes that,  in the  Netherlands’  social housing system, municipalities  decide  how to 
prioritise social housing requests, based on which party is most vulnerable in that specific neighbourhood. 
The Dutch system is based on a point system where potential tenants  are  qualified according to  their 

 

 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

need.10 For example, refugees are typically considered to be among the most vulnerable populations in 
neighbourhoods where there is a high influx of refugees.11  
 
Given this constraint, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the NWB Bank framework allows for a broader 
reach of vulnerable populations at a national level, and aligns well with the Dutch Government’s social 
mix strategy.12 

 

Alignment with the ICMA Social Bond Guidance and Green Bond Principles 2016 

Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  NWB’s  social  bond  is  well  aligned  with  the  ICMA’s  Social  Bond 
Guidance, 2016, due to (a) the nature of the social projects described in the eligibility criteria, and (b) the 
targeted nature of the populations served. Given the clear need for affordable housing in the Netherlands, 
the targeted nature of NWB’s eligibility criteria ensures the inclusion of disadvantaged and marginalized 
groups. In addition, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that NWB’s social bond follows the guidance provided 
by the Green Bond Principles 2016 with respect to transparency around the project selection process, 
management of proceeds, and reporting. See Appendix 1 for details. Overall, Sustainalytics considers that 
proceeds from NWB’s social bond can be expected to provide a high level of social impact to underserved 
communities by increasing the availability of affordable housing.  
 
 
 

 

 

 
10 Huurprijs en puntentelling, accessed 18 April 2017 from: https://www.rijksoverheid.nl/onderwerpen/huurprijs-en-puntentelling 
11 Rijksoverheid: Hebben asielzoekers met een verblijfsvergunning voorrang op een sociale huurwoning?, accessed April 18, 2017 from: 
https://www.rijksoverheid.nl/onderwerpen/asielbeleid/vraag-en-antwoord/hebben-vergunninghouders-voorrang-bij-het-toewijzen-van-een-
sociale-huurwoning 
12 Social mix policies in large housing estates: a comparison of the Netherlands, Sweden, and Spain, accessed April 18, 2017 from 
https://dspace.library.uu.nl/bitstream/handle/1874/12733/c5.pdf. 

 

 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analysed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not accept 
any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from the use 
of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied,  regarding  the  advisability  to  invest  in  or  include  companies  in  investable  universes  and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the  economic  performance  and  credit  worthiness  of  the  bond,  nor  to  have  focused  on  the  effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

14 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics  is  an  independent  ESG  and  corporate  governance  research,  ratings  and  analysis  firm 
supporting  investors  around  the  world  with  the  development  and  implementation  of  responsible 
investment  strategies. With 13 offices globally, Sustainalytics partners with institutional investors who 
integrate  environmental,  social  and  governance  information  and  assessments  into  their  investment 
processes.  Today,  the  firm  has  more  than  300  staff  members,  including  170  analysts  with  varied 
multidisciplinary  expertise  of  more  than  40  sectors.  Through  the  IRRI  survey,  investors  selected 
Sustainalytics as the best independent responsible investment research firm for three consecutive years, 
2012 through 2014 and in 2015, Sustainalytics was named among the top three firms for both ESG and 
Corporate Governance research. The firm was also named the Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
Global Capital in 2015. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com  
 
Sustainalytics 
info@sustainalytics.com  
www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 

15 

