 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

CENTRAL PUGET SOUND 

REGIONAL TRANSIT 

AUTHORITY GREEN BONDS 

 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND-PARTY 

OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

 

November 28th, 2016 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW and SECOND-PARTY 

OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

November 28th, 2016 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW and SECOND-PARTY 

OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 

Ankita Shukla (Toronto) 
Senior Advisor, Advisory Services 
ankita.shukla@sustainalytics.com  
(+1) 416 861 0403 

Charlotte Peyraud (New York)  
Senior Advisor, Institutional Relations 
charlotte.peyraud@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 646 518 0184 

November 28th, 2016 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

1.  PREFACE 

2. 

INTRODUCTION 

3.  SOUND TRANSIT GREEN BONDS OVERVIEW 

Use of Proceeds 
Green Eligibility Criteria 
Projects Selection Process 
Management of Proceeds 
Reporting 

4.  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 

Conclusion 

APPENDICES 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 

 
 
  
 

 

 

 
 

2 

2 

3 
3 
3 
4 
4 
4 

5 
8 

9 

19 

1 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

1. PREFACE 
The Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority (Sound Transit) plans to issue a series of green bonds 
and has engaged Sustainalytics to review and provide an opinion on the bonds’ green credentials.  As part 
of  this  engagement,  Sustainalytics  reviewed  relevant  public  and  internal  documents  and  held 
conversations with Sound Transit’s  treasury team to understand  the  use of proceeds, management  of 
proceeds  and  reporting  aspects  of  its  green  bonds,  as  well  as  Sound  Transit’s  progress  since  its  2015 
inaugural green bond. This report contains two sections: (1) Framework Overview – summary of Sound 
Transit’s Green Bonds framework; and (2) Sustainalytics’ Opinion – an opinion on the framework. 

 
2.   INTRODUCTION 
Created  in  1993,  Sound  Transit  is  a  special-purpose  municipal  corporation,  responsible  for  the 
construction  and  operation  of  high-capacity  public  transportation  systems  serving  the  Greater  Seattle 
area encompassing the greater part of three counties including King, Pierce and Snohomish. Sound Transit 
plans, builds and operates express bus, light-rail and commuter train services, with an annual ridership of 
nearly 35 million in 2015, representing an increase of nearly two million from 20141. 
 
Sound  Transit  adopted  its  initial  “System  Plan”  in  1996,  which  incorporated  commuter  rail,  light  rail, 
express  bus,  community  connections  (such  as  transit  centers,  park-and-ride  lots  and  transit  access 
improvements), high-occupancy vehicle facilities and other improvements. The agency’s three primary 
transportation modes are detailed below: 
 
Link Light Rail: Light electric rail travels 20 miles connecting a number of key economic centers of the 
Puget Sound region including the international airport, downtown Seattle, University of Washington and 
other major job centers and residential areas. The Tacoma Link light travels 1.6 miles through downtown 
Tacoma. With the opening of 3 new stations in 2016, average weekday ridership has grown 75% from 
April 2016 – September 2016 compared to April 2015 – September 20152. 
 
Sounder Commuter Train: An 83-mile commuter train service that connects the cities of Seattle, Everett, 
Tacoma  and  Lakewood.  Sounder  commuter  rail  uses  diesel-powered  locomotives  and  multi-level 
passenger coach trains that run mostly on BNSF Railway Company railroad freight tracks. 
 
ST  Express  Bus:  ST  Express  buses  travel  between  major  communities  in  King,  Pierce  and  Snohomish 
counties. ST Express also works to integrate its projects with other transit agencies in order to create an 
efficient transportation system throughout the entire region. 
 
 

 

 

1 Sound Transit 2015 Sustainability Progress Report—Appendix 
2 Sound Transit. Quarterly Ridership Report http://www.soundtransit.org/ridership   

 
 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Sound Transit System’s Expansion Plans 
Sound  Transit  has  initiated  three  comprehensive  transportation  development  plans.  The  Ten-Year 
Regional Transit System Plan (Sound Move) was implemented in 1996 and is currently near completion. 
In  2008,  voters  approved  Sound  Transit  2  (ST2)  as  a  second  phase  of  the  System  Plan  to  finance  the 
expansion of the transportation network, which is currently under development.  
 
In November 2016, Puget Sound voters approved the third comprehensive transportation development 
plan. The Sound Transit 3 (ST3) System Plan, a 25-year mass transit expansion plan, will finance 62 new 
miles of light rail including 37 new stations, increase the capacity of the Sounder Commuter Rail, expand 
Bus Rapid Transit and improve the speed and reliability of the ST Express bus service. The plan is expected 
to cost $53.8 billion in total and is expected to be financed with a combination of sales tax, rental car tax 
and motor vehicle tax proceeds, property tax, federal, state and local grants and loans, bond proceeds, 
fares and other operating revenues, as well as interest earnings on money from such sources. 
 
Sound Transit’s Series 2015 Green Bonds 
Sound Transit issued nearly $1 billion in green bonds in September 2015. Proceeds from the bond were 
used to finance or refinance projects that adhere to Sound Transit’s Sustainability Plan, which include: 
reducing  car  trips  by  carrying  more  transit  riders,  supporting  smart  regional  growth,  fostering  transit-
oriented development and improved transit access, designing and building greener projects and operating 
fleets and facilities more efficiently3. Sustainalytics provided the second party opinion for the Series 2015, 
dated July 27, 20154. 

 
3. SOUND TRANSIT GREEN BONDS OVERVIEW 
Use of Proceeds 
Sound Transit plans to raise approximately $480 million of bond proceeds (subject to market conditions) 
by issuing green bonds to reimburse Sound Transit’s recent capital expenditures under the three transit 
modes.  Appendix  A  provides  a  list  of  projects  and  their  estimated  expenditures  that  are  eligible  for 
reimbursement under the Green Eligibility Criteria. Sound Transit plans to report the final list of projects 
and actual allocated amounts when the bond proceeds are fully allocated. 
 
In addition, a nominal amount from the proceeds will be used to pay for cost associated with the issuance 
of green bonds. 
 
Green Eligibility Criteria 
The  projects  that  fall  under  the  following  green  categories  are  eligible  for  reimbursement  from  the 
proceeds of the bond and eligible for green designation. 

 

3 Sound Transit. 2015 Green Bond Annual Report.  

http://www.soundtransit.org/sites/default/files/20160919-green-bond-annual-report-2015.pdf  

4 Sustainalytics Second Party Opinion. 

http://www.sustainalytics.com/sites/default/files/sound_transit_green_bonds_sustainalytics_review.pdf  

3 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

  Transit  Line  New  Build/  Expansion  /  Extension:  Includes  the  planning,  permitting,  design  and 

construction of new build, extension or expansion of transit system.  

  Transit Operations, Maintenance and Improvements: Includes 

o  Operations  related  projects  such  as  fare  collection  systems,  communication  systems, 

signaling, transit centers etc. 

o  Maintenance  related  project  such  as  storage, 

layover,  maintenance  facilities, 

o 

maintenance related electronic and electrical systems, refurbishments etc. 
Improvements related projects that, enhance commuter experience (safety and comfort) 
such  as  signage,  noise  reducing  walls  etc.,  and/or  increase  access  to  transit  such 
pedestrian bridges, car and bike parking, HOV lane and track improvements etc.  

  Transit Planning and Evaluation: Planning, assessment and analysis relating to transit including 
environmental assessments, capital investments evaluation, evaluation of transit alternatives etc.  

 
Projects Selection Process 
Sound Transit’s Treasury and Bond Counsel set guidelines and priorities for the project selection for 
green bonds. The projects were selected based on the following considerations:  

  The projects satisfy at least one of the requirements of the Green Eligibility Criteria; 
  The time period in which the expenditures were made; 
  Preliminary expenditures that are eligible for reimbursement. These expenditures include 
design, engineering and surveying that occur before the commencement of a project; and 

  Expenditures that have not been allocated to grants or other bond issues.  

 
Management of Proceeds 
At the time of the financial close of the green bonds transaction, it is expected that all the green bonds 
proceeds  will  be  used  to  reimburse  Sound  Transit  for  approximately  $480  million  (subject  to  market 
conditions) of eligible capital expenditures and to pay associated cost of issuance. Given that the monies 
will have already been spent on transit projects, there will not be any bond proceeds to manage over 
time. In the event that any bond proceeds are not used for reimbursement, they will be spent on Link light 
rail eligible expenditures. 
 
Reporting  
Sound Transit publishes an Annual Green Bond Report that reports on the final use of proceeds and the 
agency’s environmental and sustainability progress and results. As well, Sound Transit plans to report the 
final list of projects and actual allocated amounts when the bond proceeds are fully allocated. 

In  addition,  Sound  Transit  publishes  an  annual  sustainability  progress  report  highlighting  the 
environmental  benefits  of  transit  in  its  region  of  operation.  This  includes,  how  operating  the  system 
benefits regional air quality and greenhouse gas (GHG) emission savings per year. Sound Transit follows a 
methodology  developed  by  the  American  Public  Transportation  Association  (APTA)  and  The  Climate 
Registry to account for savings from transit ridership, measured as carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2e)5.  

 
5 American Public Transportation Association. Quantifying Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Transit. 

https://www.apta.com/resources/standards/Documents/APTA%20SUDS-CC-RP-001-09.pdf 

4 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

4. SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
A sustainability-focused agency:  
Sustainalytics has reviewed Sound Transit’s 2015 Sustainability Progress Report and is of the opinion that 
Sound Transit is a sustainability-focused organization. Based on the agency’s environmental commitments 
and internal processes to manage environmental impacts, Sound Transit is well positioned to issue green 
bonds.  
 
In 2015, the agency met 14 out of 15 of its sustainability targets which align with the green bonds issued 
in 2015 including: advancing sustainability in early planning and design, reducing construction pollution, 
increasing revenue fleet fuel efficiency, and reducing vehicle pollution. Sound Transit’s 2016 targets focus 
on integrating the agency’s eight sustainability priorities into the Sound Transit 3 (ST3) system expansion 
plan, design and construction. The agency’s sustainability priorities are provided in Appendix B.   
 
Sound Transit has maintained an ISO 14001 certified Environmental & Sustainability Management System 
(ESMS)  since  2007  with  environmental  objectives  and  targets  that  are  measurable,  meaningful  and 
understandable. The ESMS provides the management system for implementing the sustainability goals. 
The ESMS is managed by an intra-agency Steering Committee which indicates a longer-term commitment 
to sustainability, oversight and overall transparency regarding sustainability goals. The agency reports that 
its Sustainability Division coordinates across the agency to set sustainability goals and annually monitor, 
measure and report on progress. 
  
With  the  passage  of  ST3,  Sound  Transit  will  continue  to  implement  its  Sustainability  Plan  goals  and 
integrate sustainability approaches into all aspects of agency activities, consistent with Board-adopted 
policy. The ST3 Plan re-affirms that Sound Transit’s ongoing sustainability efforts include its commitment 
to implementing green building and infrastructure. 
 
Finally, Sound Transit showed its commitment to sustainability by issuing nearly $1 billion in green bonds 
in September 2015. The issuance was the world’s largest municipal sale of such bonds, which earned the 
organization Environmental Finance’s Municipal Bond of the Year award for 20166. 
 
Environmental impact of mass transit:  
Sound  Transit  offers  a  low  carbon  alternative  to  commuting  by  road  in  the  system  area.  Major 
environmental accomplishments achieved by Sound Transit include: (1) saving more GHG emissions than 
it emits resulting in a net positive environmental impact, (2) reducing the energy required to move each 
passenger and (3) reducing air pollution emissions. 
 
Firstly, Sound Transit is able to save more GHG emissions than it emits. In 2015, the region avoided 2.2 
tons of emissions for every ton of GHG that it emitted as a result of mode shift and related congestion 

 
6 Sound Transit. 2015 Green Bond Annual Report. http://www.soundtransit.org/sites/default/files/20160919-green-bond-annual-report-

2015.pdf  

 
 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

relief benefits7. The data for land-use benefits are not yet as robust as for the other two metrics. Regional 
GHG emission savings from Sound Transit in 2014 are indicated in the table below8. 
 

 

 
The expansion of the Link light rail will further reduce GHG emissions in the system area through mode 
shift  and  congestion  benefits.  The  proceeds  of  green  bonds  are  allocated  primarily  to  Link  light  rail 
expansion  which  has  shown  a  significant  increase  in  ridership  recently  and  has  resulted  in  positive 
environmental impacts.  
 
Secondly, energy efficiency has improved per passenger and passenger mile travelled (PMT). Though fleet 
energy use across Sound Transit’s three modes has gradually increased by 7% since 2011 due to increases 
in service, energy use per passenger mile travelled has decreased by 16%9.  
 
Thirdly, air pollution from Sound Transit operations decreased as a result of improved emissions control 
technologies on newer ST Express buses and upgrades to Sounder commuter rail engines. Sound Transit 
monitors  criteria  air  pollutants  (CAPs)  which  include  particulate  matter  (PM10),  volatile  organic 
compounds, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxides (CO) and sulfur dioxides. The agency reports that it has 
been able to reduce such CAPs since 2011 - PM10 was reduced by 21% and CO by 3%10. 
 
Growing regional demand for mass transit: 
Sound Transit’s annual ridership was nearly 35 million in 2015  representing a 49%  growth since 2010. 
Sound Transit ridership showed strong growth in 2015 with a 14.6% increase for the Sounder commuter 
rail, 3.6% increase for the ST Express and 5.1% increase for the Link light rail. More recently, Link light rail 
ridership showed a sharp increase during the second quarter, with a 75% growth compared to the same 
period of last year11. This growth was largely due to the opening of the University Link extension in March 
2016 which connected light rail from downtown to the University of Washington.  
 
The  recent  increase  in  ridership  is  an  indication  that  Sound  Transit  is  successfully  addressing  regional 
demand  for  public  transportation.  The  region’s  population  is  expected  to  grow  by  approximately  1.7 
million people by 2040 which will further increase the demand for service in the region by an estimated 

 
7 Sound Transit 2015 Sustainability Progress Report—Appendix 
8 Sound Transit 2014 Sustainability Progress Report—Appendix 
9 Sound Transit 2015 Sustainability Progress Report—Appendix 
10 Sound Transit 2015 Sustainability Progress Report—Appendix 
11 Sound Transit. Quarterly Ridership Report. http://www.soundtransit.org/ridership  

 
 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

40%12. Sound Transit’s transport infrastructure will last for decades, which means that such development 
will have long-lasting impacts on the regions urban development as well as climate.  
 
Alignment with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): 
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were set in September 2015 and form an agenda for achieving 
sustainable development by the year 2030. These goals are widely considered to be the next step to the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDG),  which  were  time-bound  to  2015.  Sound  Transit’s  sustainable 
transport development is essential to achieving most, if not all, of the proposed SDGs. According to the 
UN Division for Sustainable Development (DSD), although sustainable transport is not represented by a 
standalone SDG, it is mainstreamed across several SDGs and targets, especially those related to health, 
energy, infrastructure and cities and human settlements13. 
 
However, of particular importance for Sound Transit under the Green Bond Principles (GBP) is SDG 11 
Sustainable  Cities,  which  includes  a  target  to  providing  access  to  safe,  affordable,  accessible  and 
sustainable  transport  systems  for  all,  notably  by  expanding  public  transport.  The  SDG  recognize  the 
fundamental role of cities in fighting climate change and achieving a sustainable future. Under the Central 
Puget  Sound  Regional  Transit  Authority  Green  Bond  Framework,  eligible  green  projects  contribute 
towards  the  promotion  of  sustainable  city  infrastructure  and  are  aligned  with  SDG  11.2  Sustainable 
Transport under Sustainable Cities.  
 
Alignment with Green Bond Principles 2016:  
Sustainalytics has determined that the Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority Green Bond 
Framework aligns to the four pillars of the International Capital Markets Association (ICMA) Green Bond 
Principles 2016 - the use of proceeds, process of project evaluation and selection, management of 
proceeds and reporting 14. For detailed information please refer to Appendix D: Green Bond/Green Bond 
Programme External Review Form. 
 
 

 

 
12 Puget Sound Regional Council. Vision 2040. http://www.psrc.org/assets/1775/V2040execsumm.pdf  
13 UN Sustainable Development Goals: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabletransport   
14 International Capital Market Association (ICMA), Green Bond Principles, 2016. 16 June 2016: http://www.icmagroup.org/Regulatory-Policy-

and-Market-Practice/green-bonds/green-bond-principles/  

7 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Conclusion 
The transport sector is responsible for one quarter of energy-related GHG emissions worldwide15. There 
are also enormous opportunities presented by sustainable transport: saving hundreds of thousands of 
lives every year through improved road safety and reduced air pollution, and reducing carbon emissions 
by  7  gigatons16.  Since  the  transport  sector  has  the  fastest  rate  of emission  increase,  including  it  in  an 
effective policy response to climate change is essential to keep the global temperature increase below 
two-degree  Celsius.  Considering  its  importance,  ICMA  Green  Bond  Principles  recognizes  clean 
transportation as an eligible green project category offering clear environmental benefits. 
 
Through Sound Transit’s green bonds, the agency aims to support projects that will provide low-carbon 
public transit to Central Puget Sound commuters and thereby reducing the overall GHG emissions within 
the system area.  Sustainalytics  is of the opinion that  Central Puget Sound Regional Transit Authority’s 
green bond framework is credible and robust and provides clarity regarding the outcomes of the green 
bond investments.  

 

 

 
15 UN Sustainable Development Goals: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/sustainabletransport  
16 International Energy Agency: Energy Technology Perspectives: www.iea.org/etp 

 
 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

APPENDICES 
 
Appendix A: Eligible Projects 
 

Project Code 

Project Category 

Project Name 

Project Description 

Transit 
Operations, 
Maintenance 
and 
Improvements 

Sounder 
Maintenance Base 

Sounder Evaluating operations and maintenance cost 
efficiencies associated with commuter rail operations and 
maintenance facilities  
Commuter Rail Maintenance Base 

Transit Planning 
and Evaluation 

Positive Train 
Control 

Federally mandated systems that will significantly reduce 
the probability of accidents 

Puyallup Station 
Improvements 

Sounder Commuter Rail Access improvements with 
parking, pedestrian access improvements bike storage and 
access 

Approximate 
Bond Eligible 
Amount 

          805,000  

      33,590,000  

          939,000  

300004 

300011 

300017 

300018 

300021 

300026 

3X206 

400007 

400008 

400009 

 
 

Transit 
Operations, 
Maintenance 
and 
Improvements 

Transit 
Operations, 
Maintenance 
and 
Improvements 

Transit Line New 
Build/ Expansion 
/ Extension 

Transit Line New 
Build/ Expansion 
/ Extension 

Transit Line New 
Build/ Expansion 
/ Extension 

Transit Line New 
Build/ Expansion 
/ Extension 

Transit Line New 
Build/ Expansion 
/ Extension 

Transit 
Operations, 
Maintenance 
and 
Improvements 

Sumner Station 
Improvements 

Sounder Commuter Rail Access improvements with 
parking, pedestrian access improvements bike storage and 
access 

        4,207,000  

Tacoma Trestle 
Track & Signal 

Sounder Yard 
Expansion 

Sounder Commuter Rail Design and construction of 
additional track, bridge and platforms along .65 miles of 
track baselined in 2015 

Sounder Commuter Rail Increase Track Capacity at the 
layover facility in Lakewood with drainage and electrical 
improvements 

      23,616,000 

        5,366,000  

Mukilteo Station-S 
Platform 

Sounder Commuter Rail Construction of south platform 
opened March 2016 

        4,693,000  

First Hill Streetcar 

Built by ST owned and operated by King County Metro - 
Opened January 2016 

      41,923,000  

Tacoma Link 
Expansion 

2.4 miles, 6 new stations extended the existing Tacoma 
Link  

        3,173,000  

Link O&M Facility 
East 

Operations and Maintenance Facility to support the fully 
built out ST2 program 

        5,786,000 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

400032 

4X100 

4X115 

4X200 

4X420 

4X445 

4X600 

5X387 

Transit Line New 
Build/ Expansion 
/ Extension 

Transit Line New 
Build/ Expansion 
/ Extension 

Transit Line New 
Build/ Expansion 
/ Extension 

Transit Line New 
Build/ Expansion 
/ Extension 

Transit Line New 
Build/ Expansion 
/ Extension 

Transit Line New 
Build/ Expansion 
/ Extension 

Transit Line New 
Build/ Expansion 
/ Extension 

Transit Line New 
Build/ Expansion 
/ Extension 

ST1 LRV Fleet 
Expansion 

Light Rail Vehicle Procurement that will support the needs 
of the entire ST2 program 

          879,000  

Northgate Link 
Extension 

4.3 miles, 3 stations connecting the University of 
Washington Station to Northgate  

Lynnwood Link 
Extension 

8.5 miles, 4 stations extending from Northgate to 
Lynnwood 

    448,181,000 

      26,114,000  

University Link 
Extension 

3.15 miles. 2 stations extending light rail from downtown 
to the University of Washington - Opened March 2016 

    203,203,000  

S 200th Link 
Extension 

1.6 miles, 1 station from Sea Tac Airport to the Angle Lake 
Station - Opened September 2016 

    131,317,000  

Federal Way Link 
Extension 

7.6 miles, 3 stations from Angle Lake to the Federal Way 
Transit Center  

        6,946,000  

East Link 

14 Miles, 10 stations connects downtown Seattle with 
Bellvue  

    269,710,000 

REX I-90 2 Way 
Trans& HOV III 

Preparing I-90 for the East Link Extension 

      99,879,000 

Grand Total 

  

  

 1,310,327,000 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

10 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

 
Appendix B: Sound Transit’s 2016 Sustainability Targets 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

11 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Appendix C: Sound Transit’s Environmental Policy 
 

 

 
 

12 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bonds are considered sustainable 
and responsible. Consequently, the Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of the Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in the Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in the Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, the Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bonds, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 
 

 

 
 

18 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics is the largest independent provider of sustainability 
research, analysis, and services to investors. We serve over 250 
institutional investors which include some of the world's largest asset 
owners and asset managers. Through over 20 years of experience 
serving the responsible investment (RI) market, we have gained a 
reputation for providing high-quality ESG research solutions and 
excellent client service. 

Sustainalytics is headed by seasoned professionals in the field of 
business, finance, and sustainability, with a wealth of experience in the 
Responsible Investment area. After more than 20 years of local 
experience and expertise in the Responsible Investment (RI) market 
Sustainalytics has developed a comprehensive understanding of trends 
and best practices and a solid process to assist organisations in 
integrating ESG considerations into their policies and strategies. We 
have worked with some of the world’s financial institutions including 
pension plans, investment managers and banks providing customised 
support to help them achieve their RI objectives. Clients include ABN 
AMRO, APG, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank, ING Bank, Lombard 
Odier, Lloyds Bank, Triodos Bank, UBS and over 250 other financial 
institutions and organisations. 

Sustainalytics now has a staff of 250 employees globally, including over 
120 analysts, with operations in Amsterdam, Boston, Bucharest, 
Frankfurt, New York, Paris, London, Singapore, Sydney, Timisoara, and 
Toronto, and representation in Brussels and Washington DC. 

In 2015, Sustainalytics was named the Best 
SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
GlobalCapital. In December 2014, for the 
third year in a row, Sustainalytics was 
named best sustainable and responsible 
investment research firm in the 
Independent Research in Responsible 
Investment (IRRI) Survey, conducted by 
Thomson Reuters and SRI-CONNECT.  
 

 
 

19 

