 STARBUCKS CORPORATION 

SUSTAINABILITY BOND 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

March 6th, 2017 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
Charlotte Peyraud (New York) 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
Senior Advisor, Institutional Relations 
 
charlotte.peyraud@sustainalytics.com 
www.sustainalytics.com 
  (+1) 646 518 0184 
 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
 
Vikram Puppala  
www.sustainalytics.com 

Trisha Taneja (Toronto) 

Advisor, Advisory Services 
trisha.taneja@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 647 317 3695 

 
 

Vikram Puppala  

James Hawylak (Tokyo)  

Director, Institutional Relations 
james.hawrylak@sustainalytics.com 
(+81) 3 4589 4886 

 
 

Vikram Puppala  

© Sustainalytics 2017 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

1. 

Introduction 

2.  Overview of Issuer 

3.  Framework overview 
3.1  Use of Proceeds 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
3.3  Management of Proceeds 
3.4  Reporting 

4  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 

Section 1: Sustainability Performance of the Issuer 
Section 2: Impact of Use of Proceeds 
Conclusion 

APPENDICES 

Appendix 1: Sustainalytics’ ESG Assessment of Starbucks 
Appendix 2: C.A.F.E. Practices 
Appendix 3: Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

1 

3 

3 

4 
4 
5 
6 
6 

8 
8 
9 
11 

12 
12 
13 
15 

21 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

 

1. INTRODUCTION 
 
Starbucks Corporation (Starbucks) intends to issue a euro-yen-denominated sustainability bond that will 
focus on enhancing its sustainability programmes around coffee supply chain management. Starbucks has 
engaged Sustainalytics to formulate a framework in alignment with the Green Bond Principles 2016 and 
the  Social  Bond  Guidance  2016,  and  to  provide  an  opinion  on  the  sustainability  credentials  of  the 
framework.  As  part  of  this  engagement,  Sustainalytics  has  reviewed  relevant  public  and  internal 
documents. It also has engaged with members of the company’s global coffee sourcing, responsibility and 
public policy teams to understand the alignment of the company’s sustainability bond with its business 
strategy, the planned use of proceeds, and reporting on the key performance indicators associated with 
expected positive impacts. This document contains two sections: Framework Overview – summary of the 
Starbucks’ sustainability bond framework; and Sustainalytics’ Opinion – an opinion of the framework. 
 
2. OVERVIEW OF ISSUER 
 
Established in 1971 and headquartered in Seattle, Washington, Starbucks operates as a roaster, marketer, 
and  retailer  of  specialty  coffee  worldwide.  It  is  the  world’s  fourth-largest  coffee  roaster  in  terms  of 
volume, and it is responsible for approximately 3% of global coffee sourcing. Starbucks caters to millions 
of customers daily in more than 75 countries. As of the first quarter of 2017, Starbucks has more than 
24,000 stores around the globe.  
 
Given that Starbucks has significant influence in the coffee supply chain, the company has implemented 
a strategic focus on “building a future with farmers,” investing in coffee farmers and their communities. 
In 2004, together with Conservation International, an environmental NGO, Starbucks developed its own 
ethical sourcing programme for coffee, the Coffee and Farmer Equity (C.A.F.E.) Practices, which includes 
standards related to quality, economic, social and environmental performance. C.A.F.E. Practices promote 
environmentally responsible growing methods, ensure minimum wages and fair working conditions, and 
advocate  for  economic  transparency  and  resource  management  (for  more  on  C.A.F.E.  Practices,  see 
Appendix 2). 
 
Starbucks  also  partners  with  various  industry  stakeholders  to  further  promote  sustainable  coffee 
sourcing.1 In addition, the company addresses other sustainability challenges in the coffee supply chain 
through farmer support centres in coffee growing regions, and farmer loans and community investments. 
Through the issuance of a sustainability bond focused on sustainable sourcing, Starbucks aims to finance 
initiatives that will have a positive social and environmental impact in the coffee supply chains worldwide. 
 
 

 
1 Starbucks: Press Release, December 1, 2015, https://news.starbucks.com/news/making-coffee-the-worlds-first-sustainably-
sourcedagriculture-product. 

 

 

3 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

3. FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 
For this sustainability bond, a framework has been created that follows the four key pillars of the Green 
Bond Principles 2016 and that aligns with the Social Bond Guidance 2016. By issuing this sustainability 
bond, Starbucks will finance projects in the coffee growing regions that aim to promote socio-economic 
advancement  and  environmental  sustainability.  The  following  section  summarises  Starbucks’ 
sustainability  bond  framework,  including  the  use  of  proceeds,  process  for  project  selection,  the 
management of proceeds, and reporting. 
 
3.1  Use of Proceeds 
The proceeds of the sustainability bond will be allocated towards refinancing and funding new Starbucks’ 
projects that meet one of the following eligibility criteria. 
 
3.1.1  Eligibility Criteria 
To be eligible for the sustainability bond proceeds, the projects funded must be involved in one or more 
of the following business activities: 
 

1.  PURCHASING COFFEE VERIFIED BY A THIRD-PARTY AS COMPLYING WITH COFFEE AND FARMER 
INCLUDE  RELATED 

(C.A.F.E.)  PRACTICES.  SUSTAINABLE  COFFEE  PURCHASES 

EQUITY 
EXPENDITURES FOR COFFEE TRANSPORTATION AND STORAGE. 

 
Context: As noted above, Starbucks has developed its own ethical sourcing programme, C.A.F.E. Practices, 
to measure and monitor the economic, social and environmental aspects of coffee production. In 2015, 
Starbucks achieved a target of sourcing 99% of its coffee ethically, defined as coffee that has been third-
party audited and verified to be compliant with the company’s C.A.F.E. Practices or Fairtrade standards2.  
 
Use of Proceeds: Proceeds of the sustainability bond may be allocated to coffee purchases and related 
transportation and storage expenditures, from suppliers that are third-party verified as complying with 
the C.A.F.E. Practices (for details see Appendix 2). 
 

2.  EXPENDITURES RELATED TO DEVELOPMENT AND OPERATIONS OF FARMER SUPPORT CENTERS 

AND AGRONOMY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CENTER. 

 
Context:  To  help  suppliers  and  farmers  implement  C.A.F.E.  Practices  and  bring farmers  into  its  supply 
chain,  Starbucks  operates  nine  Farmer  Support  Centers  in  Costa  Rica,  Rwanda,  Tanzania,  Ethiopia, 
Colombia,  Guatemala,  China,  Mexico  and  Indonesia.  These centers  employ  agronomists,  sustainability 
and quality experts who train farmers, including those that are not part of the company’s supply chain, 
on coffee growing techniques, including reducing the costs associated with growing, increasing the yields 
and  quality,  training  farmers  on  soil  management,  field-crop  production  and  milling  processes,  and 
reducing pest and disease among others. 
 

 
2Starbucks: 2015 Global Responsibility Report, https://globalassets.starbucks.com/assets/ee8121c1a6554399b554d126228d52ed.pdf  

 

 

4 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

In  2013,  the  company  bought  a  coffee  farm  called  Hacienda  Alsacia  in  Costa  Rica,  close  to  its  Farmer 
Support  Center.  It  is  used  as  a  working  farm  and  open-sourced  agronomy  research  and  development 
center and is aimed to contribute to the work of the Farmer Support Centers in building a resilient coffee 
supply  chain.  Additionally,  it  will  develop  new  coffee  varieties  which  will  be  shared  with  the  coffee 
industry. 
 
Use of proceeds: Proceeds of the sustainability bond may be allocated to capital investments and labor 
expenses to run current farmer support centers and to set up new farmer support centers planned in the 
near-term. The aim of the farmer support centers is to help suppliers and farmers implement C.A.F.E. 
practices.  
 

3. 

 LOANS MADE TO COFFEE FARMERS THROUGH STARBUCKS’ USD 50 MILLION GLOBAL FARMER 
FUND. 

 
Context:  In  2015,  Starbucks  pledged  to  provide  USD  50  million  in  financing  to  coffee  farmers  in 
collaboration with lending organizations such as Root Capital and the Fairtrade Access Fund and other 
partners  within  the  supply  chain3  Through  its  Global  Farmer  Fund,  Starbucks  provides  loans  to  coffee 
growers at reasonable interest rates and maturities, even those who do not supply to the company, in 13 
countries including Peru, Nicaragua, Honduras, Guatemala, Rwanda, Tanzania, the Democratic Republic 
of Congo and Indonesia. As of January 2017, the company impacted approximately 40,000 farmers and 
provided or committed to provide in total about USD 26.2 million. 
 
Use of proceeds: Proceeds of the sustainability bond may be allocated to new and refinanced loans to 
coffee farmers directly and through lending organizations that provide funding for trade finance as well 
as investments in restoration and infrastructure improvements. 

 

3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
Starbucks has identified several members of its Global Coffee Team who will: 

  assess and determine project eligibility; and, 
 

recommend an allocation of proceeds to eligible projects. 

 
The Starbucks Global Coffee Team manages purchases made through its C.A.F.E. Practices programme, 
runs the farmer support center network, and administers loans to farmers. The Global Coffee Team will 
then recommend those projects to the finance department for allocation of the bond proceeds. These 
recommendations will be made on a weekly basis for coffee purchasing; monthly for loans made through 
the Global Farmer Fund; and annually for the support to the agronomy centers. The recommendations 
made by the Global Coffee Team with regard to the loans made will require approval by the company’s 
Chief Financial Officer, and all others will be immediately accepted by the finance team. The finance team 
will  track  the  allocation  of  proceeds  to  such  projects,  including  brief  descriptions  of  the  projects,  the 
countries in which the projects are located, and the amount of proceeds allocated to the projects. 
 

 
3 Starbucks: Press Release June 22, 2015, https://news.starbucks.com/news/starbucks-more-than-doubles-globalfarmer-loan-commitment. 

 

 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

 Management of Proceeds  

3.3 
The  proceeds  from  the  sustainability  bond  will  be  allocated  and  managed  by  Starbucks’s  finance 
department. The finance department will internally track quarterly budgets and actual spend for all the 
eligible project categories. Pending the allocation of the sustainability bond proceeds, the company will 
temporarily  invest  an  amount  equal  to  the  balance  of  the  proceeds  in  cash,  cash  equivalents  and/or 
treasury securities. Payment of principal and interest on the sustainability bond will be made from the 
company’s general funds and will not be directly linked to the performance of any eligible projects.  
 
Starbucks expects to spend the majority of the sustainability bond proceeds within two years of the date 
of issuance. 
 
3.4 
 Reporting  
Allocation reporting  
Throughout the term of the sustainability bond, until the proceeds have been fully allocated to projects 
meeting the eligibility criteria, Starbucks commits to publishing annual updates of the allocation of the 
proceeds, including, subject  to confidentiality considerations, additional  descriptions of select projects 
funded with sustainability bond proceeds. The annual allocation will be reported publicly on the Starbucks 
website at www.starbucks.com. It will also be reported on in the annual Starbucks Global Responsibility 
Report. These reports will be accompanied by: 
 

  An assertion by management that the net proceeds of this offering were allocated to qualifying 

eligible projects; and 
 

  A  report  from  a  nationally  recognized  firm  registered  with  the  Public  Company  Accounting 
Oversight  Board  in  respect  of  its  examination  of  management’s  assertion  conducted  in 
accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public 
Accountants. 

 
Allocation reporting will be available at the anniversary of this bond’s issuance. 
 
Impact reporting 
To  the  extent  possible,  in  addition  to  its  allocation  reporting,  Starbucks  intends  to  demonstrate  the 
environmental and/or social impacts of the projects to which bond proceeds have been allocated. Where 
relevant,  Starbucks  will  report  on  the  following  Key  Performance  Indicators  (KPIs)  in  aggregate  for 
sustainability bond projects: 

  Verified Coffee Purchases – Coffee pounds purchased that are third-party verified according to 
C.A.F.E. Practices and the percentage of total company coffee purchases that verified purchases 
represent. 

  Number  of  New  Suppliers  –  Number  of  New  Suppliers  Verified  Against  C.A.F.E.  Practices  in 

reporting year. 

  Coffee  Sourced  by  Continent  –  Coffee  pounds  purchased  under  verified  C.A.F.E.  Practices, 

disaggregated by continent 

 

 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

 

Loans Distributed – Amounts loaned through the Global Farmer Fund with tracking against USD50 
million commitment. 

  Agronomy  Centers  Opened  and  Supported  –  Number  of  Farmer  Support  Centers  opened 

annually and the number of Farmer Support Centers with continued operations. 

 
Finally, Starbucks will publish narrative reporting around the positive sustainability impacts on the coffee 
industry triggered by engaging farmers around C.A.F.E. Practices, including case studies. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

4  SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
 
Section 1: Sustainability Performance of the Issuer  
Contribution of bond proceeds to Starbucks’ sustainability targets 
In 2015, 99% of the 551 million pounds of Starbucks’ coffee was ethically sourced either through Coffee 
and Farming Equity (C.A.F.E.) Practices, Fairtrade, or another externally audited system. While expanding 
its  sourcing  base,  the  company  has  been  gradually  increasing  targets  for  ethically  sourced  coffee 
(according  to  C.A.F.E.  Practices  standards)  year-on-year,  reaching  99%  target  in  2015.4  Additionally, 
Starbucks also has annual targets to increase the total amount of loans it provided to farmers. In 2015, it 
dispersed USD 17.6 million in funds and has since worked with partners to disburse an additional USD 
2.75 million in 2016, surpassing its USD 20 million target.5 Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Starbucks’ 
sustainability bond framework is aligned with the company’s corporate sustainability strategy and targets, 
and that Starbucks is well positioned to issue a sustainability bond.  
 
Well positioned to mitigate environmental and social risk in its supply chain 
Common risks associated with procuring coffee from developing countries include social risks such as child 
labour,  forced  labour,  unsafe  working  conditions,  and  below  minimum  wage  payment.  Additionally, 
procurement of coffee is also associated with certain environmental risks, such as inefficient use of water, 
soil  degradation  through  use  of  pesticides,  and  deforestation.  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that 
Starbucks is well positioned to mitigate both these risks, due to (i) the strength of its social supply chain 
management system and (ii) procurement of verified coffee.  
 
Strong social supply chain management 
The company has very strong social supply chain standards that address health and safety, minimum living 
wages, maximum working hours, freedom of association, child labour, non-discrimination, forced labour 
and corporal punishment. Furthermore, Starbucks engages SCS Global Services to oversee  (i) the audit 
framework and methodology and (ii) the network of approved third-party verification organizations that 
evaluate suppliers against its supply chain standards.  Starbucks also works with suppliers to correct any 
noncompliance. Suppliers that fail to comply or fail to work with Starbucks or the third party to correct 
noncompliant practices may have their contracts or business relationship terminated. Additionally, the 
company may discontinue the use of non-complying production sites. Given (i) the breadth of Starbucks’ 
social  supply  chain  standards,  (ii)  the  use  of  a  credible  third  party  to  oversee  audit  methodology  and 
verifiers,  (ii)  use  of  corrective  action  for  non-compliance,  and  (iv)  policy  to  discontinue  using  non-
compliant farmers, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Starbucks’s social supply chain management aligns 
with best practice in sustainable supply chain management. 
 
Importance of verification in mitigating environmental risk associated with procurement of coffee 
Starbucks’ C.A.F.E. Practices refer to a sustainable sourcing programme, developed by the company in 
collaboration  with  Conservation  International,  aim  to  ensure  coffee  quality  while  promoting  social, 
economic and environmental standards. In particular, the scope of environmental standards covered by 

 
4 Sustainalytics ESG research ; https://www.starbucks.com/responsibility/global-report 
5 Starbucks internal reporting on its loan portfolio; https://www.starbucks.com/responsibility/global-report  

 

 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

C.A.F.E  practices  is  comprehensive  and  directly  addresses  the  environmental  risks  associated  with 
unsustainable coffee growing practices.  
 
The  scope  of  C.A.F.E.’s  environmental  standards  includes  (but  is  not  limited  to)  prevention  of  water 
pollution, efficient use of water resources, controlling erosion, preventing deforestation through use of a 
coffee shade canopy, pest and disease control. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that (i) the comprehensive 
scope  of  C.A.F.E’s  environmental  standards,  (ii)  Starbucks’  implementation  of  a  scoring  system  that 
awards a premium to higher-scoring coffee farmers (thereby incentivizing better performance), and (iii) 
C.A.F.E’s requirement for farmers to comply with a set of minimum standards (known as zero tolerance 
indicators) are strong measures to mitigate identified environmental risks. 
 
Sustainalytics  recognizes  that  there  has  been  some  criticism  of  C.A.F.E.  practices.  Sustainalytics  has 
assessed  Starbuck’s  C.A.F.E  practices  and  has  found  that  C.A.F.E.  standards  are  aligned  with  leading 
practices in sustainable supply chain management, addressing environmental and social risks associated 
with growing coffee. For a full analysis on C.A.F.E practices, see Appendix 2. 
 
Section 2: Impact of Use of Proceeds 
Sustainalytics recognizes that the use of proceeds are being directed towards Operational Expenditures 
(OpEx). Sustainalytics is of the opinion that proceeds will have clear environmental and social impact due 
to advancing sustainable agricultural practices and socioeconomic development of farmers in Starbucks’ 
coffee supply chain.  
 
Impact of lending to coffee farmers  
About 20 million of the world’s rural poor depend on coffee production for their livelihoods.6 Lending to 
smallholder coffee farmers plays a key role in improving  their livelihoods by increasing their access to 
finance. Typically, small-scale coffee farmers lack access to finance as: (i) a lack of financial literacy and 
poorly defined property rights often prevent the use of cultivated land as collateral, and (ii) the cost of 
credit  in  developing  countries  is  high,  especially  the  cost  of  longer-term  credit  appropriate  to  capital 
investments. Without access to affordable credit, most smallholders are confined to sub-optimal inputs 
and  methods,  and  therefore  to  low  productivity,  putting  their  livelihood  at  risk.7  In  general,  the 
smallholder  financing  market  is  still  in  its  early  stages  and  is  undeveloped,  fragmented,  and 
undercapitalized. A directional estimate of the market suggests that the smallholder demand for financing 
could be as large as USD 450 billion, the vast majority of which is unmet8. 
 
According to Starbucks’ lending criteria, 55% of its loans to coffee farmers should be made to small-scale 
farmers, defined by Starbucks as farmers with less than 12 hectares of land. Additionally, Starbucks also 
caps the maximum interest rate charged at 9% per annum. This is lower than the rates offered for business 
loans in the countries of operation9. By ensuring that its lending from the Starbucks Global Farmer Fund 

 
6 Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (2017). Retrieved on January 24, 2017 from http://www.fao.org/sustainability/en/.  
7 Dalberg, City Foundation and skoll Foundation (2012). Catalyzing Smallholder Agriculture Finance. Dalberg Global Development Advisors, New 
York City [Online]. Retrieved on January 24, 2016 from http://www.newforesight.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/IFC-Report_here.pdf.  
8 Dalberg, City Foundation and skoll Foundation (2012). Catalyzing Smallholder Agriculture Finance. Dalberg Global Development Advisors, New 
York City [Online]. Retrieved on January 24, 2016 from http://www.newforesight.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/IFC-Report_here.pdf.  
9 World Bank Group: Lending interest rates 2015. Retrieved on January 24, 2017 from 
http://data.worldbank.org/indicator/FR.INR.LEND?view=map.  

 

 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

is affordable, and that a large portion of its lending is directed towards those in need of access to finance, 
Starbucks’ is creating targeted social impact by improving coffee farmers’ livelihoods.  
 
Impact of purchasing verified coffee 
By  purchasing  coffee  that  is  verified  by  C.A.F.E.  practices  or  by  other  credible  third-party  standards, 
Starbucks is not only mitigating environmental risk, but is also promoting the use of  more sustainable 
agricultural techniques. Such environmentally sustainable farming practices are often also better for crop 
yield, and for  farmers’ livelihoods. For example, growing coffee under a canopy of trees mitigates the 
environmental risk of deforestation, but also results in better soil productivity, supports biodiversity, and 
results in improved quality of the coffee produced.  
 
Overall, by procuring certified coffee, Starbucks is creating environmental and social impact by promoting 
the use of environmentally impactful agricultural practices that can also improve farmers’ livelihoods.  
 
Alignment with the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals  
The  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  were  set  in  September  2015  through  a  multi-stakeholder 
partnership, and form an agenda for achieving sustainable development by the year 2030. These goals 
are widely considered to be the next step to the Millennium Development Goals (MDG), which were time-
bound  to  2015.  Unlike  the  MDG’s,  the  SDGs  emphasize  the  elimination  of  inequality  and  disparity  in 
opportunity globally, in both developed and developing countries. In particular, SDG 2 ‘Zero Hunger’ has 
a target to “double the agricultural productivity and incomes of small-scale food producers.”10 
 
The  world’s  population  growth  is  expected  to  concentrate  in  regions  that  are  the  world’s  most  food 
insecure: sub-Saharan Africa, South Asia, Southeast Asia and parts of Latin America.11 Agriculture in these 
regions is dominated by small-scale farmers, defined as farmers with approximately one hectare of land. 
Improving the productivity of these farms is key to meeting future food demands and addressing the UN 
SDGs12. By providing technical assistance to  smallholder farmers, and by lending to and purchasing from 
smallholder  farmers,  Starbucks’  sustainability  bond  framework 
is  directly  contributing  to  the 
abovementioned target of SDG 2.  
 
Alignment with Green Bond Principles 2016 and Social Bond Guidance 2016 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Starbuck’s sustainability bond follows the guidance provided by the 
Green Bond Principles 2016, and adheres to its four pillars. Please see Appendix  3 for more details. In 
addition, Starbuck’s targeted lending to farmers most in need creates social impact by allowing for the 
socioeconomic  empowerment  of  coffee  farmers.  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  Starbuck’s 
sustainability bond is well aligned with the Social Bond Guidance 2016.   
 
 
 

 
10 U.N. Sustainable Development Goals: https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdg2. 
11 Access to Seeds Index 2016. Retrieved on January 24, 2017 from http://www.accesstoseeds.org/downloads/index-report-2016.pdf 
12 Access to Seeds Index 2016. Retrieved on January 24, 2017 from http://www.accesstoseeds.org/downloads/index-report-2016.pdf. 

 

 

10 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Conclusion  
Starbucks’ Sustainability Bond Framework is transparent and provides clarity regarding use of proceeds 
and  the  outcomes  of  the  Sustainability  Bond  investments.  Starbucks’  bond  has  the  clear  impact  of 
advancing  sustainable  agricultural  practices  and  socioeconomic  development  of  farmers  in  Starbucks’ 
coffee supply chain. Starbucks’ Sustainability Bond is also aligned to the four pillars of the Green Bond 
Principles  2016,  and  the  Social  Bond  Guidance  2016.  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  Starbucks’ 
Sustainability Bond is credible and robust.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

11 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

APPENDICES 
Appendix 1: Sustainalytics’ ESG Assessment of Starbucks 
 
The assessment below is from Sustainalytics’ online portal that provides access to an array of ESG research 
products.  Sustainalytics  assesses  Starbucks  as  being  a  “Leader”  with  respect  to  Overall  ESG  Score.  
Starbucks is in the Consumer Services industry.  
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

12 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Appendix 2: C.A.F.E. Practices  
 
C.A.F.E. Practices are presented as scorecards (both generic and customized to smallholders) of about 200 
indicators that are publicly disclosed, and the company encourages its use by other industry players.13 
Upon completion of the verification process overseen by SCS Global Services (a third-party environmental, 
sustainability and food quality certification organization), coffee farmers may receive one of the following 
statuses:  
 

- 

Strategic suppliers achieve a minimum total score of 80% and comply with the zero tolerance 
indicators. These suppliers are eligible for  a  USD 0.05 premium  per pound on all green coffee 
shipped  during  the  first  year  of  achieving  the  strategic  status  and  for  one  more  year  if  they 
demonstrated  improvement  in  their  practices.  This  status  is  awarded  for  four years  if  audited 
during harvest period and no organizational changes occur. 

-  Preferred suppliers achieve a minimum total score of 60% and comply with the zero tolerance 
indicators.  This  status  is  awarded  for  three  years  if  audited  during  harvest  period  and  no 
organizational changes occur. 

-  Verified suppliers achieve a score of below 60% and comply with the zero tolerance indicators. 

This status is awarded for two years if audited during harvest period. 

 
C.A.F.E. Practices indicators are tradable and the status is based on the suppliers’ total score, meaning 
that suppliers can be assigned preferred or strategic status based on the fulfillment of different indicators. 
The zero-tolerance indicators for verified compliance with C.A.F.E. Practices are minimum expectations 
rather than best practice. For example, in the environmental dimension, Starbucks requires suppliers not 
to use pesticides that are listed by the World Health Organization as Type 1A or 1B, or that are banned 
according to applicable laws. In the social dimension, the C.A.F.E. Practices zero-tolerance indicator on 
wages and benefits requires that farm owners pay at least minimum wage to all farm workers (whether 
permanent, contract, or seasonal). The minimum wage in most countries is still below the living wage for 
that  country;  therefore,  requiring  farm  owners  to  pay  at  least  a  living  wage  would  be  best  practice; 
however  C.A.F.E.  does  at  least  encourage  higher than  minimum wages  by  allocating  an  extra  point  to 
suppliers who pay more than minimum wage.14 However, these limitations are addressed by Starbucks’ 
commitment to engage with its suppliers in order to continuously increase their performance according 
to the C.A.F.E. Practices indicators. To incentivize suppliers to improve their performance, Starbucks pays 
a one-time premium to those farmers who rank as strategic against the C.A.F.E. Practices scorecards.  
 
Sustainalytics notes that there has been some criticism of C.A.F.E Practices, as there is a perceived conflict 
of interest in Starbucks’ developing its own ethical standards, rather than complying with other industry 
standards such as Fair Trade or Rainforest Alliance.15 However, the company notes that, at the time C.A.F.E 

 
13 The full C.A.F.E. Practices scorecard can be reviewed at https://www.scsglobalservices.com/starbucks-cafe-practices 
14 The minimum wage is defined as the lowest wage legally permitted by government. The living wage is defined as the lowest wage that would 
allow the earner to afford adequate shelter, food and the other necessities of life. 
15 Raluca Dragusanu, Daniele Giovannuccii, Nathan Nunn, The Economics of Fair Trade, accessed on 22 April 2016, 
http://scholar.harvard.edu/files/rdragusanu/files/jep_firstdraft_sept10_2013.pdf 
In FY 2014, Starbucks was the largest global customer of Fair Trade coffee (approximately 8.6% of all of Starbucks’ coffee purchases).   

 

 

13 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Practices  were  developed,  there  were  no  third-party  standards  that  addressed  the  intersecting 
sustainability  challenges  of  coffee  farming,  or  that  would  apply  to  small-scale  coffee  farmers.   
Furthermore, the company has demonstrated a high degree of transparency through the public disclosure 
of the scorecards and verification processes, and the involvement of third-party verification organizations 
who  conduct  audits  and  oversee  the  verification  process.  Additionally,  Conservation  International  has 
conducted a five-year impact assessment report disclosing performance trends under C.A.F.E Practices 
and reported the information publically.16 
 
Starbucks  has also  been criticized for only offering  a one-time  price premium to its strategic suppliers 
under  C.A.F.E  Practices,  instead  of  all  suppliers  that  are  C.A.F.E  Practices  verified.  In  response,  the 
company  emphasizes  that  C.A.F.E.  Practices  is  not  a  certification  scheme,  but  rather  a  continuous 
improvement programme. Once farmers are verified against C.A.F.E Practices by  a third-party auditor, 
Starbucks works with them to improve their standing to reach preferred, and eventually strategic, status. 
Suppliers  are  expected  to  communicate  the  implementation  of  work  plans  to  local  Farmer  Support 
Centers and provide progress reports. They can also reach out to Farmer Support Centers for additional 
assistance to improve  their performance. According to internal documents reviewed by Sustainalytics, 
only a small percentage of current C.A.F.E suppliers rank as verified, compared to a large majority which 
are strategic or preferred. Furthermore, although only strategic suppliers are awarded price premiums, 
both preferred and strategic suppliers receive preferential contract terms.  
 
Finally, as noted above, Sustainalytics finds that the standards of the C.A.F.E. Practices are aligned with 
leading  practices  in  sustainable  supply  chain  management,  addressing  the  environmental  and  social 
concerns of coffee growers.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
16 C.A.F.E.Practices Results Assessment Fiscal Years 2011-2012, 
www.conservation.org/publications/Documents/2011_2012_Starbucks_CAFE_Practices_Results_Assessment.pdf. 

 

 

14 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics  is  an  independent  ESG  and  corporate  governance  research,  ratings  and  analysis  firm 
supporting  investors  around  the  world  with  the  development  and  implementation  of  responsible 
investment  strategies. With 13 offices globally, Sustainalytics partners with institutional investors who 
integrate  environmental,  social  and  governance  information  and  assessments  into  their  investment 
processes.  Today,  the  firm  has  more  than  300  staff  members,  including  170  analysts  with  varied 
multidisciplinary  expertise  of  more  than  40  sectors.  Through  the  IRRI  survey,  investors  selected 
Sustainalytics as the best independent responsible investment research firm for three consecutive years, 
2012 through 2014 and in 2015, Sustainalytics was named among the top three firms for both ESG and 
Corporate Governance research. The firm was also named the Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
Global Capital in 2015. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com  
 
Copyright © 2017 Sustainalytics. All rights reserved. 
 
The  intellectual  property  rights  to  this  publication/report  and  the  information  contained  herein  are  vested  exclusively  in 
Sustainalytics and/or its suppliers. No part of this publication/report may be reproduced, used, disseminated, modified, published 
or  otherwise  furnished  in  any  manner  without  the  express  written  consent  of  Sustainalytics.  Nothing  contained  in  this 
publication/report shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or implied, regarding the advisability to 
invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or portfolios. The performance represented herein is historical; past 
performance is not a reliable indicator of future results and results and the information provided in this brochure is not intended 
to be relied upon as, nor to be a substitute for specific professional advice and in particular financial advice. The information on 
which this publication/report is based on reflects the situation as on the date of its elaboration. Such information has – fully or 
partially  –  been  derived  from  third  parties  and  is  therefore  subject  to  continuous  modification.  Sustainalytics  observes  the 
greatest possible care in using information but cannot guarantee that information contained herein is accurate and/or complete 
and no rights can be derived from it. The information is provided “as is” and, therefore Sustainalytics assumes no responsibility 
for  errors  or  omissions.  Sustainalytics  nor  its  suppliers  accept  any  liability  for  damage  arising  from  the  use  of  this 
publication/report or information contained herein in any manner whatsoever. 
 
Sustainalytics 
info@sustainalytics.com  
www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 

 

 

21 

