 

 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 ROTOPLAS  

SUSTAINABILITY BOND 

 

 

SECOND-PARTY OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

May 29th 2017 

Trisha Taneja (Toronto, ON) 

Kate Dzhaha (Toronto) 

Charlotte Peyraud (New York)  

 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 

Advisor, Advisory Services 
trisha.taneja@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 647 317 3695 
 
 
 
 

Advisor, Advisory Services  
kate.dzhaha@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 416 861 04 03 
 

Senior Advisor, Institutional Relations 

charlotte.peyraud@sustainalytics.com 

(+1) 646 518 0184 
 

Kate Dzhaha (Toronto) 

Charlotte Peyraud (New York)  

Advisor, Advisory Services  
kate.dzhaha@sustainalytics.com 

Senior Advisor, Institutional Relations 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

SECOND-PARTY OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

1. 

Introduction 

2.  Sustainalytics’ Opinion 

Section 1: Sustainability Performance of the Issuer 
Section 2: Impact of Use of Proceeds 

Social Impact of Sustainability Bond 
Environmental Impact of Rotoplas Sustainability Bond 

Conclusion 

APPENDICES 

Appendix 1: The list of sample eligible projects and initially estimated potential allocations of the 

bond issuance 

Appendix 2: Rotoplas strategy to contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals 
Appendix 3: Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

1 

3 

4 
4 
6 
6 
10 
11 

12 

12 
14 
15 

22 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

1. INTRODUCTION  

 
Grupo  Rotoplas  SAB,  a  Mexico-based  manufacturer  of  water  solutions,  has  developed  a  Sustainability 
Bond  Framework  in  accordance  with  which  it  intends  to  issue  a  sustainability  bond  that  will  fund 
environmentally  and  socially  beneficial  projects  in  countries  of  its operations.  The  Sustainability  Bond 
Framework has been published in a separate document. The net proceeds of the sustainability bond will 
be used to refinance or finance, in whole or in part, existing (re-financing) and future projects that improve 
access to water and sanitation among underserved populations, and increase water use efficiency. The 
sustainability  bond  will  fund  the  following  types  of  expenditures  according  to the  eligibility  criteria  as 
defined in the Sustainability Bond Framework. The types of expenditures  are: 
 

1.  Development, acquisition and operation of facilities; AND  
2.  Manufacturing and installation of products that address one or more targets associated with the 

following Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): 
i)  SDG 6 — Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all; OR 
ii)  SDG 9 — Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization 

and foster innovation 
 

The eligibility criteria are:  

1.  Category: Drinking Water Solutions  

Projects that provide access to clean water for individuals in areas that lack water supply or 
where tap water is unsafe to drink; 

2.  Category: Water Storage 

Projects that provide access to water for households or commercial facilities in water-scarce 
areas or areas lacking reliable water supply; 

3.  Category: Sanitation and Sewage Treatment  

Projects that provide access to adequate sanitation facilities in areas with underdeveloped 
sewage infrastructure; 

4.  Category: Water and Wastewater Treatment 

Projects that improve water quality and increase water-use efficiency through water recycling 
and reuse. 

 
A list of sample eligible projects and initially estimated potential allocations for the bond issuance is 
provided in Appendix 1.  
 
Rotoplas  has  engaged  Sustainalytics  to  provide  a  second-party  opinion  on  the  Rotoplas  Sustainability 
Bond  Framework.  As  part  of  this  engagement  process,  Sustainalytics  held  conversations  with  various 
stakeholders within the company. These conversations clarified the use of proceeds, project evaluation 
and selection process, management of proceeds and reporting aspects of the Sustainability Bond, as well 
as the sustainability strategy of Rotoplas. Sustainalytics also reviewed relevant public documents and non-
public documents relating to the design, planning, governance and construction of eligible projects under 
the Rotoplas Sustainability Bond Framework and provided its opinion on the framework, as well as the 
expected  environmental  and  social  impacts  created  by  the  eligible  projects.  This  document  contains 

 

 

3 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Sustainalytics’ opinion on the Rotoplas Sustainability Framework and should be read in conjunction with 
that framework. 
 

2. SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 

 
Section 1: Sustainability Performance of the Issuer 
 
Contribution of the sustainability bond to Rotoplas’ sustainability strategy and targets 
Sustainalytics  has  reviewed  Rotoplas’  sustainability  strategy  and  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  company’s 
business model is sustainability-focused and that the company is well-positioned to provide new water 
solutions that help to address various social and environmental challenges. In 2016, Rotoplas carried out 
a  materiality  analysis  and identified  the  eleven  key  sustainability  issues  most  material  to  its  business. 
These included access to water and sanitation, innovation, and conscious water consumption. Rotoplas’ 
sustainability commitment is informed by these issues. On its website, Rotoplas states that its mission is 
to provide innovative water solutions “for people to have more and better water” in the countries of its 
operations1. The company states in its 2015 annual report that it believes that “satisfying the demand for 
clean water is crucial for inclusive economic growth, development, and sustainability”2. According to its 
2016 annual report, Rotoplas is also engaged in leading various initiatives aiming to increase awareness 
about the responsible use of water through its products and services, as well as educational campaigns, 
such as the company’s “Cuidado del Agua” (Water Care) project that is offered at primary schools and 
universities3. Furthermore, the company states in its annual report that it chairs the Committee on Culture 
and Sustainable Water Use at the Water Advisory Council with the aim to support collective initiatives 
that contribute to promoting sustainable water use4.  
 
In its annual report, Rotoplas reports that the company has developed a corporate sustainability model 
that is based on the aforementioned materiality assessment and contains four “focal points”: corporate 
sustainability  governance,  collaborative 
innovation  with  purpose,  driving  economic  and  social 
development, and safeguarding water as a resource for the future5. The company is currently developing 
the Model Implementation Plan that will contain a series of targets pertaining to each of the four focal 
points that it will aim to achieve over the course of the next three years6. 
 
Additionally,  Rotoplas  states  in  its  2016  annual  report  that  it  has  aligned  its  operations  and  solutions 
portfolio  with  2030  United  Nations  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and  specific  Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs)7. Most of the company’s products are specifically designed to provide basic 

 
1 http://www.rotoplas.com/about-us.html 
2 http://www.rotoplas.com/inversionistas/reporte-anual/2015/annual-report-2015-bmv.pdf  
3 http://www.rotoplas.com/inversionistas/reporte-anual/2016/annual-integrated-report-rotoplas-2016.pdf  
4 http://www.rotoplas.com/inversionistas/reporte-anual/2016/annual-integrated-report-rotoplas-2016.pdf  
5 http://www.rotoplas.com/inversionistas/reporte-anual/2016/annual-integrated-report-rotoplas-2016.pdf  
6 http://www.generadordeideas.com.mx/proyectos/rotoplas16/index.php?locale=eng  
7 http://www.rotoplas.com/inversionistas/reporte-anual/2016/annual-integrated-report-rotoplas-2016.pdf   

 

 

4 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

needs  of  clean  water  and  sanitation  to  the  underserved  communities.  The  company’s  strategy  to 
contribute to specific SDGs is outlined in Appendix 2.  
 
Given that Rotoplas (i) has integrated environmental and social considerations into its business operations 
and product solutions, (ii) has a commitment to set specific targets and report on the progress, and (iii) 
has aligned its Sustainability Bond Framework with its overall sustainability strategy, Sustainalytics is of 
the opinion that Rotoplas is well positioned to issue a sustainability bond. 
 
Well positioned to address common environmental and social risks associated with the projects 
Sustainalytics recognizes that water infrastructure development projects such as those to be financed by 
the bond can create environmental and social risks in addition to benefits. Sustainalytics is of the opinion 
that Rotoplas is well positioned to manage and address such risks. 
 
Environmental risks include the release of certain volatile chemicals into the air in the process of water 
collection and treatment, as well as generation of large quantities of solid waste that may not always be 
discharged in an environmentally friendly way.8  Furthermore, some rainwater harvesting systems may 
seep  chemicals  and other substances  that  can  harm plants  and  animals  depending  on  the  use  cases.9 
Rotoplas reports that it is required by law to conduct Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA) in order to 
assess and manage environmental impacts resulting from its projects10. 
 
For example, Rotoplas discloses in a public offering memorandum that, in Mexico, the company’s largest 
market,  the  Ecology  Law  establishes  the  legal  framework  for  the  environmental  impact  assessment 
procedure and the release of air pollutants emissions. In addition, the country’s Waste Law regulates the 
production  and  management  of  hazardous  waste  and  materials,  as  well  as  the  discharge  of  polluting 
materials in the soil. The company must also meet certain administrative regulations in Mexico related to 
environmental protection: operating licenses, declaration of production of hazardous waste, declaration 
of delivery, transportation and disposal of hazardous waste, risk assessment for high-risk activities and, in 
the  case  of  new  facilities  or  expansions,  environmental  impact  assessment  and  risk  analysis,  land  use 
license, permits for the discharge of wastewater and concession agreements for the use and exploitation 
of national waters.11  In the memorandum,  Rotoplas  also  reports  that its rainwater harvesting systems 
include water purification solutions that help improve the quality of rainwater and minimize detrimental 
environment  impacts12.  Furthermore, Rotoplas discloses on its website  that all of its plants operate in 
accordance  with  ISO  9001:  2008  requirements,  while  the  company’s  plants  in  Leon  and  Lerma  have 
received external certification13.  
 

 
8 https://www.ec.gc.ca/eu-ww/default.asp?lang=En&n=6296BDB0-1  
9 http://www.conserve-energy-future.com/advantages_disadvantages_rainwater_harvesting.php  
10 http://www.rotoplas.com/inversionistas/Offering_Memorandum.pdf  
11 http://www.rotoplas.com/inversionistas/Offering_Memorandum.pdf  
12 http://www.rotoplas.com/inversionistas/Offering_Memorandum.pdf  
13 http://www.rotoplas.com.mx/inversionistas/faq-eng.html  

 

 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Social risks include negative  impacts on local communities or the company’s consumers. For example, 
communities living in close proximity to wastewater treatment plants can be exposed to various health 
risks caused by air and land pollution.14 Furthermore, communities using rainwater harvesting systems 
may be exposed to hazardous chemicals and bacteria in collected water. In its annual report, Rotoplas 
states that its products and services adhere to strict health and safety requirements and that the company 
provides support and training to its consumers in both urban and rural areas on how to use its products 
in a safe way15.  
 
Given that the net proceeds will be used by Rotoplas to create positive social impact through improving 
access to water and sanitation for the underserved communities, social risks are estimated to be minimal. 
Furthermore, Rotoplas evaluates the impacts generated by its projects to identify an improvement in the 
hygiene and health conditions of communities, the impact on food intake, the use of water for cooking, 
and the impact on school attendance. For example, the company reports that several independent studies 
were  conducted  to  assess  the  impacts  of  the  installation  of  water  fountains  in  schools  in  Mexico. 
According to the company reports, at selected schools researchers were able to identify a decrease of 
34%  in  the  amount  of  consumption  of  soft  drinks  due  to  the  availability  of  drinking  water  in  water 
fountains, as well as the reduction in plastic bottles waste and household spending on water.16  
 
Section 2: Impact of Use of Proceeds 
  
Proceeds of the bond will be directed towards the projects that fall under the following eligible 
categories:   

1)  drinking water solutions; 
2)  water storage; 
3)  sanitation and sewage treatment; and  
4)  water and wastewater treatment. 

 

Sustainalytics  has  reviewed  Rotoplas’  Sustainability  Bond  Framework  and  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
proceeds  from  the  bond  will  have  clear  positive  social  and  environmental  impacts  and  contribute  to 
achieving  Rotoplas’  sustainability  objectives  and  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  Below, 
Sustainalytics  has  provided  an  opinion  on  the  above-mentioned  project  eligibility  criteria,  project 
selection process and expected social and environmental impacts. 
 
Social Impact of Sustainability Bond  
Importance of improving access to clean water and sanitation in emerging markets  
Rotoplas operates in markets where clean water is scarce  due to droughts, water pollution, as well as 
limited  and  unreliable  water  infrastructure  and  supply  that  make  it  difficult  for  local  populations, 
especially  those  living  in  remote  or  rural  areas,  meet  their  water  needs.  Furthermore,  a  significant 
percentage  of  people  in  these  markets  lack  access  to  basic  sanitation  infrastructure.  The  company’s 

 
14 https://www.hindawi.com/journals/jeph/2016/8467023/  
15 http://www.rotoplas.com/inversionistas/reporte-anual/2016/annual-integrated-report-rotoplas-2016.pdf  
16 http://www.rotoplas.com/inversionistas/reporte-anual/2016/annual-integrated-report-rotoplas-2016.pdf  

 

 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

largest  market  is  Mexico,  and  it  also  operates  in  other  countries  of  Latin  America,  including  Brazil, 
Argentina, Costa Rica, Belize, Peru, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Eucador, Chile, as well 
as in the United States and Canada.  In its annual report,  Rotoplas recognizes that certain areas in the 
countries of its operation require a major improvement in water and sanitation infrastructure in order to 
contribute to poverty reduction and the overall improvement of living conditions17.  
 
According to a recent study conducted by the World Bank, rainfall variability and prolonged water stress 
threaten water supply in many parts of Latin America. Areas in northern Mexico, northeast Brazil, and 
countries  in  Central  America  show  a  consistent  drying  trend  that  is  expected  to  persist  with  climate 
change. While Latin America has made significant progress on increasing the share of households with 
access to an improved source of drinking water (94% as of 2015), there is still a large gap between rural 
(84%) and urban (97%) coverage. About 20 million people residing in rural communities still lack access 
to improved drinking water. Furthermore, the quality of the “improved water” is often inadequate and 
may pose significant risks for public health. A pilot water testing study carried out in Nicaragua found that 
16% of water points posed high to extremely high sanitary risk. Moreover, the supply of water is unreliable 
in many areas, with  13% of the  population reporting they do not have  continuous daily service.18  The 
region’s  performance  in  terms  of  access  to  basic  sanitation  is  even  poorer.  As  of  2015,  83%  of  Latin 
America’s population had access to some form of sanitation infrastructure, with the figure being much 
lower  in  rural  areas  (64%).  Wastewater  treatment  and  reuse  is  also  low  in  the region,  as only 30%  of 
wastewater  in Latin  America  undergoes  certain  treatment,  which  poses  significant  environmental  and 
social risks. Notably, only 4% of wastewater is treated in Costa Rica.19 
 
Mexico, the company’s largest market, has been ranked by the World Resources Institute as one of the 
most water-stressed countries in the world.20 As water resources are spread unevenly across the country, 
three  quarters  of  the  population  are  living  in  water  scarce  regions.  According  to  the  National  Water 
Commission,  9%  of  the  country’s  population  lacks  access  to  tap  water  and  13%  to  sanitation.21  For 
instance, about 70% of Mexico city’s population has fewer than 12 hours of running water per day, while 
in the hardest-hit areas 18% of the population have to wait several days for just a few hours of supply.22 
The situation usually gets worse in periods of drought. The quality of water is another major challenge in 
Mexico, as surface and groundwater are being polluted by wastewater discharges. According to a study 
conducted by the Inter-American Development Bank in 2011, Mexico has the world’s highest per capita 
consumption of bottled water due to the inability of most of its population to use tap water for basic 
needs, such as drinking water, cooking, bathing, or brushing teeth. Only 18% of the country’s population 
consume tap water and 54% use it for cooking.23 
 

 
17 http://www.rotoplas.com/inversionistas/reporte-anual/2015/annual-report-2015-bmv.pdf  
18 http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/676711491563967405/pdf/114110-REVISED-Rethinking-Infrastructure-Low-Res.pdf  
19 http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/676711491563967405/pdf/114110-REVISED-Rethinking-Infrastructure-Low-Res.pdf  
20 http://www.wri.org/sites/default/files/aqueduct-water-stress-country-rankings-technical-note.pdf  
21 https://www.forbes.com/sites/ivancastano/2012/02/22/mexicos-water-war/2/#10df6edb2603  
22 https://www.theguardian.com/cities/2015/nov/12/mexico-city-water-crisis-source-sewer  
23 https://www.ft.com/content/b24b14cc-f4ee-3b8a-b1b9-56f56972d8c5  

 

 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Another example of a water stressed country where Rotoplas has operations is Brazil. Although Brazil has 
nearly a fifth of the world’s water reserves, there is a serious North-South imbalance.24 About 73% of the 
Brazil’s water is concentrated in the Amazon River Basin, while the Northeast regions have only 3% of the 
country’s water resources. In the state of Sergipe, Brazil’s poor Northeastern region, some 237,000 people 
lack in-house access to drinking water, and 514,000 do not have proper sanitation.25 In many metropolitan 
areas,  the  quality  of  potable  water  is  poor,  since  residential  and  industrial  wastewater  is  frequently 
discharged into waterways without prior treatment. In 2013, only 43% of households among the country’s 
poorest 40% of the population were connected to the sanitation network.26   
 
To address these challenges, the governments of Mexico and Brazil have launched a number of local and 
nationwide programs and set specific water and sanitation coverage targets. For instance, in 2013, the 
government of Brazil launched a National Sanitation Plan that aims to reach universal access to drinking 
water  by  2023,  and  universal  access  to  sanitation  in  urban  areas  by  2033.  In  2014,  the  Mexican 
government introduced a bill that requires public and private schools as well as other public spaces to 
install water fountains and water filters.  
 
Given this context, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Rotoplas has a large role to play in assisting the 
national governments in the countries of its operation in meeting their water and sanitation coverage 
targets. 
 
Social impact of improving access to water and sanitation  
Improving access to water and sanitation is an essential part of a wider process of poverty reduction and 
sustainable development.27 According to the United Nations, millions of people, mostly children, die every 
year from diseases associated with inadequate water supply, sanitation and hygiene. Furthermore, water 
scarcity, inadequate water quality and lack of sanitation infrastructure negatively impact food security, 
livelihood choices  and  educational  opportunities  for poor  families  around  the world.28  These  negative 
impacts are expected to aggravate with climate change. 
 
According to the World Health Organization, there is continued high infant mortality rates from water-
borne diseases in the countries of Latin America.29 Additionally, lack of access to clean drinking water has 
led to alarmingly high obesity rates, particularly in Mexico. The country has recently been ranked as the 
world’s most overweight nation among countries with populations of over 100 million or more. This is 
largely attributed to the country’s heavy soft drinks consumption, which often serve as a drinking water 
substitute. Furthermore, Mexico is the world’s second largest bottled water market. Spending on bottled 
water puts a significant financial burden on many low-income households that do not have access to clean 
 
24 http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/pt/143111468197370875/pdf/101431-REVISED-v2-SCD-Brazil-Systematic-Country-Diagnostic-

Vol-2.pdf  

25 http://www.worldbank.org/en/results/2016/09/20/securing-water-poor-northeastern-brazil  
26 http://www.worldbank.org/en/results/2016/09/20/securing-water-poor-northeastern-brazil ; 

http://www.worldbank.org/en/news/feature/2016/07/27/how-brazil-managing-water-resources-new-report-scd 

27 http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/resources/povertyreduc2.pdf?ua=1  
28 http://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/water-and-sanitation/  
29 http://www.who.int/ceh/capacity/Water.pdf?ua=1  

 

 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

tap water. Families sometimes spend as much as 10% of their incomes on water, double what the Inter-
American Development Bank estimates should be a norm. The average Mexican spends 240 pesos ($18) 
on bottled water per month, which is mostly out of reach for people who live on a minimum wage that 
can be as low as 61.38 pesos a day.30 
 
Given the significant importance of domestic water consumption, it is clear that Rotoplas, as a pure-play 
water solutions company, has a large role to play in Latin America in relieving water stress and adapting 
to  climate  change.  Sustainalytics  recognizes  that  there  is  an  acute  need  for  the  projects  financed  or 
refinanced by this bond in most of the countries where Rotoplas operates.  
 
Rotoplas’ drinking water solutions as well as water storage and wastewater treatment solutions will help 
provide  access  to water  for  households  or  commercial  facilities  in  water-scarce  areas or  areas  lacking 
reliable  water  supply.  Furthermore,  the  company’s  drinking  water  solutions,  such  as  water  filters and 
purifiers, water fountains, will help address the problem of poor tap water quality and help address public 
health concerns, such as water-borne diseases and obesity, and help decrease household expenses on 
bottled water. Additionally, the sanitation and water solutions can help decrease the risk of sanitation-
related disease, which can in turn lead to other positive impacts such as improved school attendance, as 
illnesses  due  to  contaminated  water  are  one  of  the  major  causes  of  absenteesm  in  schools31.  Finally, 
improved  access  to  water  and  sanitation  facilities  can    increasing  women’s  participation  the  wider 
economy by leading to decreased time spent on household water management.32  
 
Targeted nature of social impact created by Rotoplas Sustainability Bond 
Although Rotoplas is a pure-play company engaged in the provision of water and sanitation solutions, 
only  projects  that  have  targeted  nature  (that  are  directed  towards  vulnerable  or  underserved 
communities where access to water and sanitation is lacking) will be eligible for financing or refinancing 
by the proceeds of this bond.  
 
Rotoplas has confirmed to Sustainalytics that to determine areas lacking inadequate water and sanitation 
coverage, Rotoplas will review government and non-profit organizations’ analysis on infrastructure gaps, 
public health issues and underserved populations; market intelligence studies and investment banking 
research e.g. on bottled water consumption and use of private water storage and delivery services; and 
reports on access to clean water and sanitation from international organizations e.g. from WHO, UNICEF, 
OECD, World Bank.  
 
Based on the above, Sustainalytics believes that the company has a robust process in place (described 
above)  to  ensure  that  the  net  proceeds  of  this  bond  are  directed  towards  targeted  populations,  as 
determined by the Social Bond Guidance. The projects will also be assessed for their alignment with the 
SDG 6 and SDG 9.  
 

 
30 https://www.ft.com/content/b24b14cc-f4ee-3b8a-b1b9-56f56972d8c5  
31 http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/publications/wash_standards_school.pdf  
32 http://www.un.org/waterforlifedecade/gender.shtml   

 

 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Environmental Impact of Rotoplas Sustainability Bond 
In areas of water scarcity, wastewater reuse and treatment becomes a necessity. As noted above, it is 
estimated that only about 30% of wastewater is treated in Latin America.33 Insufficient water treatment 
and reuse not only limits the region’s ability to get an additional and important source of water supply 
but also has significant implications for environmental sustainability. Discharge of wastewater into the 
environment without prior treatment can have a number of negative environmental impacts, including 
harm  to  fish  and  wildlife  populations,  oxygen  depletion,  beach  closures  and  other  restrictions  on 
recreational water use, restrictions on fish and shellfish harvesting and contamination of drinking water.34  
 
Furthermore, insufficient wastewater treatment and persistent droughts have led to the overexploitation 
of  freshwater  water  resources  in  many  countries  of  the  region.  For  example,  Mexico  City  has  almost 
exhausted its underground aquifers, while billions of liters of rainwater are washed down the drain or 
allowed to cause serious flood every year. Currently, 70% of the city’s water comes from the underground 
aquifers, and the extraction has been so extreme that the city has sunk more than 10 meters in the last 
100 years.35 Overall, more than 100 of the country’s 653 identified aquifers are overexploited, as more 
water  is  withdrawn  each  year  than  is  naturally  replaced.36  Similarly,  Brazil  has  exhausted  17  of  the 
country’s 18 biggest reservoirs, leaving many regions of the country in a critical situation. Due to climate 
change and poor management of the region’s limited resources, there is a high risk that many countries 
in Latin America will experience serious cyclical droughts and chronic water shortages, jeopardizing the 
livelihoods of its inhabitants.  
 
Thus, there is an immediate need for the region to improve its water management in order to restore 
water-related eco-systems and increase water use efficiency. Sustainalytics believes that Rotoplas is well 
positioned  to  help  address  these  concerns  by  proving  wastewater  treatment  and  recycling  solutions. 
Sufficient wastewater treatment and reuse is crucial for environmental sustainability and can  alleviate 
much of the demand for freshwater, particularly in the most water-scarce areas.   
 
Sustainalytics’ opinion on projects in developed countries, including acqusitions 
While some of the net proceeds will be allocated to projects that serve populations living in developed 
countries, such as the United States and Canada, Sustainalytics believes that these projects will create 
positive  social  and  environmental  impact,  as  long  as  Rotoplas  follows  the  project  selection  criteria 
outlined above in the ‘Targeted nature of social impact’ section to identify targeted populations.  
 
Furthermore, Rotoplas expects to allocate not more than 20% of the net proceeds of the bond to the 
projects  in  developed  countries.  Additionally,  Rotoplas  has  also  confirmed  with  Sustainalytics  that  for 
manufacturing CAPEX and OPEX, only costs associated with targeted eligible projects will be eligible for 
financing with the proceeds of this bond.  
 

 
33 http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/676711491563967405/pdf/114110-REVISED-Rethinking-Infrastructure-Low-Res.pdf  
34 https://water.usgs.gov/edu/wuww.html  
35 http://islaurbana.org/english/  
36 http://geo-mexico.com/?p=5320  

 

 

10 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Sustainalytics recognizes that some of the eligible projects, such as acquisitions of minority and majority 
stakes in other water solutions companies and technology innovation centers, will not have immediate 
targeted social impact, however these projects will potentially help improve access to clean water and 
sanitation among the underserved communities in the  long term. Furthermore,  Rotoplas’ investments 
into research and development facilities are expected to contribute to technological innovation, which is 
instrumental in addressing water and sanitation challenges around the world.  
 
Alignment with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were set in September 2015 and form the basis for the 2030 
United Nations Agenda for Sustainable Development. These goals are widely considered to be the next 
step to the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), which were time-bound to 2015. Under the Rotoplas 
Sustainability  Framework, eligible  projects  are  expected  to  contribute  towards  SDG  6  and  SDG  9.  The 
alignment  with  these  two  SDGs  has  been  incorporated  into  the  project  eligibility  criteria.  Rotoplas  is 
specifically  focusing  on contributing  to the  following  targets:  (6.1),  (6.2),  (6.3), (6.4),  (6.5),  (6.a),  (6.b), 
(9.1), and (9.5). Sustainalytics is of the opinion that the Rotoplas Sustainability bond is in alignment with 
the SDGs. 
 
Alignment with the Green Bond Principles 2016 
Sustainalytics has determined that the Rotoplas Sustainability Bond aligns to the four pillars of the Green 
Bond  Principles  2016.  For  detailed  information  please  refer  to  Appendix  3:  Green  Bond/Green  Bond 
Programme External Review Form. 
 
Conclusion 
Rotoplas  has  strong  commitments  to  impove  access to water and  sanitation,  as  demonstrated  by the 
company’s  sustainability  strategy,  product  portfolio  and 
international  action.  The  company’s 
sustainability  bond  issuance  will  contribute  to  meeting  water  and  sanitation  coverage  goals  in  water 
stressed countries and to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.  
 
The Rotoplas Sustainability Bond Framework is in alignment with the four pillars of Green Bond Principles 
2016, as well as with the 2016 Guidance for Social Bond Issuers. The Framework defines strong eligibility 
criteria,  demonstrates  a  transparent  project  selection  and  evaluation  process,  and  outlines  clear  and 
transparent processes for the management of proceeds and reporting with KPIs that capture social and 
environmental impacts. 
 
Based  on  the  above  considerations,  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  view  that  Rotoplas’  Sustainability  Bond  is 
robust, credible and transparent. 

 

 

 

11 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

APPENDICES 
 
Appendix 1: The list of sample eligible projects and initially estimated potential 
allocations of the bond issuance 
 

Category  

Projects 

Potential Impact Indicators 

Qualitative: 
-  Descriptions of projects 
including the need for 
such infrastructure in 
various communities 

 
Quantitative: 
-  Number of water fountains 

installed 

-  Number of schools 

benefitted 

-  Volume of water (m3) 

purified 
Qualitative: 
-  Descriptions of projects 
including the need for 
such infrastructure 
various communities 

 
Quantitative: 
-  Volume of water (m3) 

captured/stored 

Qualitative: 
-  Descriptions of projects 
including the need for 
such infrastructure 
various communities 

 
Quantitative: 
-  Number of sustainable 
bathrooms installed by 
region 

-  Number of self-clean 

biodigestors installed by 
region 

-  Number of households 

benefitted 

1. Drinking water 
solutions 

-  Drinking water fountains in 

public schools in Mexico 

 

2. Water storage 

-  Rainwater harvesting systems 

installed in Brazil in areas 
lacking reliable public water 
supply or facing semi-arid or 
drought conditions 

 

-  Outdoor Sustainable 

Bathrooms (Baño Digno) 
installed in Mexico and Brazil 
in households lacking 
sanitation or sewage 
infrastructure 

 
-  Self-cleaning biodigesters 

installed in Mexico in 
communities lacking 
sanitation or sewage 
infrastructure  

3. Sanitation and 
sewage treatment 

 

 

Potential Allocation (MXN 
millions) 
Refinancing 
-  

New 
400 

650 

-  

100 

-  

12 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

4. Water and 
wastewater treatment 

-  Acquisition of technology and 
facilities for water treatment, 
recycling and purification: 

o  Acquisition of 

majority stake in 
Sanzfield 
Technologies Inc  

o  Acquisition of  

minority stake in 
Advanced 
Innovation Center, 
LLC (AIC) 

o  Acquisition of 

majority stake in 
Soluciones y 
Tratamiento 
Ecológico, SA de CV 
(Sytesa) 

1,845 
 

150 

Qualitative: 
-  Descriptions of projects 
including the need for 
such infrastructure 
various communities 

 
Quantitative: 
-  Volume of water (m3) 

treated/recycled 

-  Metrics on improvements 

in water quality e.g. 
Biochemical Oxygen 
Demand (BOD) 

Total 

 

 

2,595 

550 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

13 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Appendix 2: Rotoplas strategy to contribute to the Sustainable Development 
Goals37  
 
 

Description 
Ensure healthy lives and 
promote well-being for all at all 
ages 

Ensure inclusive and equitable 
quality education and promote 
lifelong learning opportunities 
for all 
Achieve gender equality and 
empower all women and girls 

Ensure availability and 
sustainable management of 
water and sanitation for all 

Build resilient infrastructure, 
promote inclusive and 
sustainable industrialization and 
foster innovation 

Rotoplas’ strategy 
Contribute to addressing health 
risks, such as diarrhea and 
parasitic and bacterial diseases 
through clean water solutions 
Achieve reduction in school 
absenteeism by satisfying basic 
need of access to clean water 
and sanitation 
Empower women to develop 
outside their homes by reducing 
the time spent on providing 
water to households 
Increase access to clean water 
and sanitation for the most 
vulnerable communities 
through partnerships with 
national governments and 
NGOs 
Develop innovative water and 
sanitation solutions  

Sustainable Development Goal 
Goal 3 

Goal 4 

Goal 5 

Goal 6 

Goal 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
37 http://www.generadordeideas.com.mx/proyectos/rotoplas16/index.php?locale=eng 

 

 

14 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 
 

 

 

 

 

21 

© Sustainalytics 2017 
 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
 
Sustainalytics  is  an  independent  ESG  and  corporate  governance  research,  ratings  and  analysis  firm 
supporting  investors  around  the  world  with  the  development  and  implementation  of  responsible 
investment  strategies. With 13 offices globally, Sustainalytics partners with institutional investors who 
integrate  environmental,  social  and  governance  information  and  assessments  into  their  investment 
processes.  Today,  the  firm  has  more  than  300  staff  members,  including  170  analysts  with  varied 
multidisciplinary  expertise  of  more  than  40  sectors.  Through  the  IRRI  survey,  investors  selected 
Sustainalytics as the best independent responsible investment research firm for three consecutive years, 
2012 through 2014 and in 2015, Sustainalytics was named among the top three firms for both ESG and 
Corporate Governance research. The firm was also named the Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
Global Capital in 2015. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com  
 
Sustainalytics 
info@sustainalytics.com  
www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

22 

