 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

GREENKO GROUP  

GREEN BOND 

 

 
 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 

June 28, 2017 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
Wakako Mizuta (Tokyo) 
 
Advisor, Advisory Services  
www.sustainalytics.com 
wakako.mizuta@sustainalytics.com  
 
(+81) 3 4589 4886 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 

Ankita Shukla (Toronto) 
Senior Advisor, Advisory Services 
ankita.shukla@sustainalytics.com  
(+1) 416 861 040 

Charlotte Peyraud (New York) 
Senior Advisor, Institutional Relations  
charlotte.peyraud@sustainalytics.com  
(+1) 646 518 0184 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

1. 

Introduction 

2.  Overview of Issuer 

3.  Framework Overview 

3.1  Use of Proceeds 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
3.3  Management of Proceeds 
3.4  Reporting 

4. Sustainalytics’ Opinion 

Conclusion 

Appendices 

Appendix 1: List of Eligible Projects 
Appendix 2: Green Bond/Green Bond Programme External Review Form 

Sustainalytics 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

3 

3 

4 
4 
4 
5 
5 

7 
10 

11 
11 
14 

20 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

1. INTRODUCTION 
 
Greenko Group (“Greenko”) has developed a Green Bond framework under which it will issue a Green 
Bond the proceeds of which will refinance expenditures related to wind farms, solar farms and run-of-
the-river hydropower projects.  Greenko has engaged Sustainalytics to provide a second opinion on its 
Green  Bond  framework  and  the  framework’s  environmental  credentials.  As  part  of  this  engagement, 
Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of Greenko’s management team to understand 
the sustainability impact of their business processes and planned use of proceeds for the bond issuance. 
Sustainalytics  also  reviewed  relevant  public  and  internal  documents.  This  document  contains  two 
sections:  Framework  Overview  –  summary  of  Greenko’s  Green  Bond  framework;  and  Sustainalytics’ 
Opinion – an opinion on the framework.  
 
 
2. OVERVIEW OF ISSUER 
 
Founded in 2004, Greenko Group, through its subsidiaries, develops and operates clean energy projects 
in India. Greenko’s portfolio includes solar, wind, hydropower, natural gas, and biomass assets in India. 
Through these assets, the group generates and sells electricity to state utilities, private customers, and 
other  electricity  transmission  and  trading  companies.  It  also  operates  as  an  intermediate  financing 
company for the development of clean energy projects. Greenko is headquartered in Hyderabad, India.  
 
Greenko has a vision to be the most admired company in the Indian energy sector and its mission is to 
grow shareholder value by focusing on the adoption of technologies and methodologies that can meet 
the sustainable energy needs of India. On its website, the company discloses that it has an objective to be 
a responsible corporate citizen. This includes incorporating sustainability operationally and contributing 
to environmental and social impact in local communities. Greenko aims to achieve this objective through 
the generation of clean energy and the implementation of community programmes centred on education, 
health, and environmental stewardship.   
 
In line with this objective, Greenko is planning to issue a Green Bond to refinance expenditures related to 
the development of wind, solar and hydropower projects. These projects include seven wind farms, 13 
solar farms and 15 run-of-the-river hydropower projects, all of which are developed and operational. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

3 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

3. FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 
 
For  the  purpose  of  issuing  a  Green  Bond,  Greenko  has  developed  the  following  framework,  which 
addresses the four key pillars of the Green Bond Principles (GBP):  use of proceeds, the process for project 
selection, the management of proceeds, and reporting. 
 
3.1  Use of Proceeds 
 
The proceeds of the Green Bond will be allocated towards refinancing and funding projects that meet the 
following eligibility criteria. 
 
3.1.1  Eligibility Criteria 
 

RENEWABLE ENERGY 

 

1.  Expenditures related to the development of wind farms; 
2.  Expenditures related to the development of solar farms; 
3.  Expenditures related to the development of run-of-the-river hydropower projects. 

 
Please  see  Appendix  1  for  a  full  list  of  the  projects  that  Greenko  has  selected  for  refinancing  using 
proceeds from the bond. All meet the eligibility criteria above.  
 

3.1.2  Exclusionary Criteria 

-  Hydropower projects with a generating capacity of over 75MW. 

 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
 
Projects to be refinanced through the Green Bond proceeds were evaluated and selected based on: (i) 
Greenko’s  mission  and  vision  (ii)  commercial  feasibility  (locational  ease,  land  use,  availability  of 
resources);  (iii)  alignment  with  the  eligibility  criteria  and  exclusionary  criteria;  (iv)  alignment  with 
Greenko’s internal environmental and social risk assessment process.  
 
Alignment of Eligible Projects to Company Strategy 
Greenko aims to grow its portfolio of diversified clean energy projects over the next few years. Greenko 
has selected projects on its ability to contribute to the continued growth of Greenko’s platform through 
the development of new renewable energy projects in India.  
 
Application of Eligibility and Exclusionary Criteria in Project Selection 
The  Business  Development  Department  oversaw  the  project  selection  with  regards  to  commercial 
feasibility. The Greenko Integrated Management Systems (GIMS) and Environmental, Health, and Safety 
(EHS) teams oversaw project selection with regards to alignment with eligibility and exclusionary criteria 
and Greenko’s internal environmental and social risk assessment process.  

 

 

4 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

 
Process to Mitigate Environmental and Social Risks Stemming from Eligible Projects 
Greenko’s environmental and social risk assessment process ensures that: 
 

1.  All larger-scale run-of-the-river hydropower projects (>25 MW) undergo a formal Environmental 
Impact  Assessment  (EIA),  dam  break  analysis,  stakeholder  consultations,  and  receive  an 
Environmental Management Plan. All documents are required by, and submitted to the national 
Ministry of Environment and Forestry.  
  

2.  All other smaller-scale hydropower projects and all wind and solar projects undergo a voluntary 
Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) study to evaluate their environmental and 
social  risk.  These  studies  are  generally  based  on  the  International  Finance  Corporation  (IFC) 
Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability. These projects also undergo 
a  voluntary  stakeholder  consultation  to  engage  local  communities,  which  is  implemented  by 
Greenko.  

 
Greenko has confirmed to Sustainalytics that selected projects have undergone an EIA, ESIA or have an 
Environmental Management Plan (EMP), and a stakeholder consultation process as applicable. Greenko 
has also confirmed that, for all selected projects, the relevant EIA, ESIA, EMP and stakeholder consultation 
must conclude negligible environmental or social disruption.   
 
3.3        Management of Proceeds  
 
The proceeds of the Green Bond issued by Greenko will be immediately allocated towards refinancing the 
eligible projects. Net proceeds from the notes after deducting fees and expenses will be deposited in an 
account. Initially the funds will be used to repay existing US Dollar Bonds, which were used earlier in the 
year 2014 for subscribing to Indian Rupee (INR) Bonds issued by 20 subsidiary companies that own and 
operate the wind and hydropower developments. Balance funds in the account will be used to subscribe 
to INR Bonds that will be issued by the 14 subsidiary companies that own and operate the wind and solar 
power  developments.  The  proceeds  from  these  INR  bonds  will  in  turn  be  used  to  refinance  existing 
external debt and shareholder loans stemming from expenditures related to the eligible projects. 
 
3.4    Reporting  
 
Allocation Reporting 
Greenko will disclose all allocation reporting on a project-by-project basis.  The company has committed 
to disclosing a list of all projects refinanced with descriptions and amount of proceeds allocated on its 
website (www.greenkogroup.com). Given that all proceeds will be allocated immediately, verification on 
allocation of bond proceeds will be disclosed all at once at the end of 2017. 
 

 

 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Impact Reporting 
Greenko implements certain renewable energy projects, in India, including some of the projected to be 
refinanced by the Green Bond, under the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) of the Kyoto Protocol.1 
Greenko has confirmed that it has an internal CDM team that implements projects in accordance with the 
guidelines of the Protocol, and is responsible for the generation of the Certified Emission Reduction (CER) 
credits that are sold in carbon markets. This team is also responsible for estimating greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions avoided through the development of renewable energy projects.   
 
For those projects where the CDM mechanism is in place (15 out of the 35 eligible projects), Greenko has 
committed to quantitatively disclosing GHG emissions avoided (in tonnes of CO2 avoided per project) on 
their  website,  in  addition  to  the  allocation  reporting  described  above.  Similar  to  allocation  reporting, 
impact reporting will be disclosed all at once at the end of 2017.   
 

 

 
1 The CDM, as defined in article 12 of the Kyoto Protocol, allows a country with an emission-reduction commitment under the Kyoto Protocol to 
implement an emission-reduction project in developing countries. These projects are then eligible to earn Certified Emission Reduction (CER) 
credits, each of which is equivalent to one tonne of carbon dioxide.  These CER credits are then traded in carbon markets. 

 

 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

4. SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION  
 
Section 1: Impact of Use of Proceeds 
 
The importance of renewable energy in India: At the twenty-first meeting of the Conference of Parties 
(COP21) of the United Nations Framework Convention for Climate Change (UNFCC) in December 2015, 
India submitted its Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC)2. Key goals identified by India in 
its  INDC  include  (i)  reducing  the  emissions  intensity  of  its GDP  by 33-35%  by 2030,  using 2005  as  the 
baseline, and (ii) achieving 40% cumulative electric power installed capacity from non-fossil-fuel-based 
energy resources by 2030.3  
 
Given this international pledge, India has set ambitious national targets with regards to installed capacity 
of wind, solar and hydropower. By 2022, India is aiming to achieve a target of 60GW4 of wind and 100GW 
of solar, and 5GW of small hydro installed capacity.5 The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE) 
annual capacity installation target for Financial Year (FY) 2016-17 was exceeded for wind, however it fell 
short for solar and small hydropower. In all:  

  5.502GW of wind was installed against a target of 5GW 
  5.525GW of solar was installed against a target of 12GW 
  106MW of small hydropower was installed against a target of 250MW6 

 
The annual capacity addition target for FY 2017-18 has been set at 4.6GW for wind, 15GW for solar and 
100MW for small hydropower.7 
 
In addition to its international commitments and corresponding national targets, renewable energy has a 
particularly high strategic importance in India. India is home to 30% of the world’s global poor, and has 
300 million people who live without access to electricity.8 Currently, India’s two primary sources of energy 
are coal and imported oil,9 both of which have been recognized as unsustainable in the face of a transition 
to a lower-carbon economy. Given these two realities, India faces the tremendous challenge of fostering 
socio-economic  development  while  transitioning  to  a  more  sustainable  economy.  In  the  face  of  this 
challenge, renewable energy in India can be seen to play the crucial dual role of mitigating climate change 

 
2 INDCs require countries that are signatories to the Paris Agreement to make commitments that address climate change and to update those 

commitments every five years. 

3 UNFCC, India’s Intended Nationally Determined Contribution, 
http://www4.unfccc.int/submissions/INDC/Published%20Documents/India/1/INDIA%20INDC%20TO%20UNFCCC.pdf 
4 UNFCC, India’s Intended Nationally Determined Contribution, 
http://www4.unfccc.int/submissions/INDC/Published%20Documents/India/1/INDIA%20INDC%20TO%20UNFCCC.pdf  
5 Central Electricity Authority, National Electricity Plan, http://www.cea.nic.in/reports/committee/nep/nep_dec.pdf 
   Note: small hydro projects are classified as those that are up to 25MW installed capacity. 
6 Ministry of New and Renewable Energy data, compiled by Mercom Capital Group, http://mercomcapital.com/india-misses-renewable-

energy-installation-target-for-fy-2016-17-by-5340-mw  

7 Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, Year End Review, http://pib.nic.in/newsite/PrintRelease.aspx?relid=155612  
8 UNFCC, India’s Intended Nationally Determined Contribution,  
http://www4.unfccc.int/submissions/INDC/Published%20Documents/India/1/INDIA%20INDC%20TO%20UNFCCC.pdf  
9 US Energy Information Administration, India Country Analysis Brief, https://www.eia.gov/beta/international/analysis.cfm?iso=IND  

 

 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

and aiding socio-economic development. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Greenko’s development of 
wind, solar and hydropower projects offer clear benefits that are aligned with India’s strategic priorities.  
 
Section 2: Sustainability Performance of the Issuer 
 
Well  positioned  to  address  common  wind,  solar  and  hydropower  challenges  in  India:  Sustainalytics 
recognizes that wind, solar and hydropower developments in emerging markets such as India are exposed 
to specific challenges. Wind farm developments in India are criticized when they are built on land usable 
for reforestation, and for loss of biodiversity when built on environmentally rich lands. New solar farm 
projects in India can change land use because of the scale of land involved.10 Hydropower projects in India 
have been criticized for negative impacts on rural populations, such as displacement. Larger hydropower 
projects are also criticized for loss of aquatic biodiversity and wildlife habitat.  However, Sustainalytics is 
of the opinion that Greenko has a robust internal environmental and social risk assessment process that 
mitigates 
from: 
 

risk  assessment  process  stems 

these  concerns.  The 

robustness  of 

this 

  Compliance  of  all  eligible  large  run-of-the-river  hydropower  projects  with  the  Ministry  of 

Environment and Forestry’s requirement for an EIA 
 
The MNRE in India classifies large hydropower projects as those that have over 25MW installed 
capacity.  Greenko’s  larger  run-of-the-river  hydropower  project  built  on  the  Budhil  stream  in 
Himachal  Pradesh  has  an  installed  generating  capacity  of  70MW.11  The  project  has  been  in 
operation since 2012 and had undergone a formal EIA by its previous owner, Lanco Budhil Hydro 
Power Private Limited, as required by the Ministry of Environment and Forestry (MOEF). The EIA 
evaluated the project on numerous parameters to assess the likely environmental impact due to 
the construction of the project and suggested measures to counteract or mitigate the negative 
impacts.  
  
Based on these parameters, the EIA detailed several impacts of the project in the areas of soil, 
micro-flora and fauna, air, water, and noise quality, air pollution, land use, seismic environment, 
and socio-economic environment. All impacts identified were manageable, and formed the basis 
of a comprehensive Environmental Management Plan (EMP). The EMP also included a monitoring 
programme that was set up to continuously assess social and environmental impacts during the 
construction and operational phases of the project. Since its acquisition of the Lanco Hydropower 
project  in  2014,  Greenko  has  submitted  bi-annual  compliance  reports  on  environmental 
stipulations  required  as  per  the  MOEF.12  The  most  recent  report  disclosed  progress  on  Muck 
Management  and  River  Protection,  Air/Noise  Pollution  Management,  Water  Quality 
Management, Safety Measures amongst  other ongoing activities to reduce  environmental and 
social impact. 
  

 
10 The Guardian, Solar is booming but solar parks could have unintended climate consequences,  
https://www.theguardian.com/sustainable-business/solar-power-parks-impact-environment-soil-plants-climate  
11 Greenko Budhil Hydro Power Private Limited, http://budhilhydro.com/index.html  
12 Six Month Compliance Report, http://budhilhydro.com/docs/First_MOEF_Complaince_report_2016.pdf  

 

 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Based  on  Sustainalytics’  review  of  the  EMP  and  Greenko’s  ongoing  monitoring  activities, 
Sustainalytics believes that Greenko is prepared to effectively mitigate the environmental impacts 
of its large hydropower project.   
 

  Alignment  of Greenko’s voluntary environmental and social risk assessment initiatives with IFC 

Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability 
 
Greenko also has internal processes to assess environmental and social risk that are beyond legal 
compliance.  For  wind,  solar  and  small  hydropower  projects,  Greenko  conducts  voluntary 
Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) studies. These studies are based on the IFC 
Performance Standards, which cover a wide range of issues to address environmental and social 
risk,  including  management  of  environmental  and  social  impacts,  community  health,  resource 
efficiency and pollution prevention, and labour conditions.  
 

  Greenko’s comprehensive stakeholder engagement process 

 
Greenko has also disclosed to Sustainalytics that they conduct stakeholder consultations for their 
projects,  and  have  conducted  these  for  all  the  eligible  projects  identified  in  the  framework. 
Greenko’s stakeholder engagement policy explicitly identifies local communities as an important 
stakeholder, and describes a process for their engagement. This process specifies that a Greenko 
project manager can be approached by any representative of a local community who wishes to 
share a grievance. These grievances are then recorded in a Grievance Redressal register kept at 
each project site. Greenko’s Grievance Redressal Policy further specifies that grievances recorded 
at each project site are investigated by a committee, and a decision communicated to the relevant 
party within fifteen days. Sustainalytics believes this process to be extensive.  

 
In addition, all of the 35 eligible projects being refinanced through the proceeds of this bond are complete 
and operational. Sustainalytics has reviewed all projects for both environmental and social controversy 
and found evidence of a controversy associated with the AMR hydro project in Karnataka. In 2011, three 
students  drowned  eight  kilometres  downstream  of  the  AMR  hydropower  plant.13  Sustainalytics  has 
followed up with Greenko on the incident and confirmed that, according to its records, it was sufficiently 
demonstrated to the authorities that there was no  change  in the water levels (intake and outflow) or 
power generation. The authorities verified the facts and noted that the incident was not attributable to 
AMR. Though there was no mandate to compensate families of the deceased, monitory assistance was 
provided  on  compassionate  grounds.  Additionally,  Greenko  has  confirmed  that,  following  the 
investigation, there have been no ongoing protests related to the AMR hydro project. 
 
Lastly,  Greenko  has  demonstrated  a  commitment  to  mitigating  environmental  and  social  risks  in  its 
operations.  The  company  has  received  and  maintained  external  certifications  for  its  environmental 
management  system  (ISO  14001:2015)  and  its  occupational  health  and  safety  management  (OHSAS 
18001:2007). Given the integration of environmental and social concerns into its operations, its robust 

 
13 http://www.dnaindia.com/india/report-himachal-tragedy-which-claimed-25-may-not-be-the-last-warns-report-1996128 and 

http://www.daijiworld.com/news/newsDisplay.aspx?newsID=124076  

 

 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

internal  risk  assessment  process  for  wind,  solar  and  hydropower  projects,  Sustainalytics  believes  that 
Greenko Group is well positioned to issue this Green Bond.  
 
Section 3: Sustainalytics Opinion on the Greenko Green Bond Framework 
 
Overall, Sustainalytics views Greenko’s eligibility criteria for use of proceeds under its Green Bond 
framework as credible and robust. All of its use-of-proceeds categories are recognized as eligible by the 
Green Bond Principles 2017. In addition, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Greenko’s renewable 
energy projects align with the Sustainable Development Goals as well as the Green Bond Principles 
2017. 
 
Alignment with Sustainable Development Goals: The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were set in 
September 2015 and form an agenda for achieving sustainable development by the year 2030. Greenko’s 
Green  Bond  projects  are  particularly  relevant  to  SDG  7,  Affordable  and  Clean  Energy,  which  includes 
targets to increase substantially the  share of renewable energy in the global energy mix.  Additionally, 
Sustainalytics believes that SDG 7 is vital in achieving many of the other SDGs, including combating climate 
change and eradicating poverty. 
 
Alignment with Green Bond Principles (GBP) 2017: Sustainalytics has determined that Greenko Group’s 
Green  Bond  aligns  with  the  four  pillars  of the  Green  Bond Principles  2017. Please  see  Appendix 2  for 
details.  
 
Conclusion  
 
Greenko Group’s Green Bond framework is transparent and provides clarity regarding use of proceeds 
and the outcomes  of the  Green  Bond investments. Renewable  energy is recognized by the GBP as  an 
eligible green project category, offering clear environmental benefits. In the context of India’s sustainable 
development challenge, Greenko’s development of wind, solar and hydropower projects contribute to an 
important  national  priority  and  the  country’s  transition  to  a  low-carbon  economy.  Furthermore,  in 
Sustainalytics’ view Greenko Group’s internal environmental and social risk assessment process positions 
it  well  to  address  the  challenges  associated  with  wind,  solar  and  hydropower  development  in  India. 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Greenko Group’s Green Bond is credible and robust.  
 

 

 

 

10 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

APPENDICES 
 
Appendix 1: List of Eligible Projects 
 
Wind Portfolio 

 

 

 

 

11 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Solar Portfolio 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

12 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Hydro Portfolio 

 

 

 

 

13 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
Sustainalytics  is  an  independent  ESG  and  corporate  governance  research,  ratings  and  analysis  firm 
supporting  investors  around  the  world  with  the  development  and  implementation  of  responsible 
investment  strategies. With 13 offices globally, Sustainalytics partners with institutional investors who 
integrate  environmental,  social  and  governance  information  and  assessments  into  their  investment 
processes.  Today,  the  firm  has  more  than  300  staff  members,  including  170  analysts  with  varied 
multidisciplinary  expertise  of  more  than  40  sectors.  Through  the  IRRI  survey,  investors  selected 
Sustainalytics as the best independent responsible investment research firm for three consecutive years, 
2012 through 2014 and in 2015, Sustainalytics was named among the top three firms for both ESG and 
Corporate Governance research. The firm was also named the Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm by 
Global Capital in 2015. For more information, visit www.sustainalytics.com  
 
Sustainalytics 
info@sustainalytics.com  
www.sustainalytics.com  
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 

20 

