	
	
		

	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

	

	
	
	

	

	
	
	

	CIUDAD	DE	MÉXICO		

(CDMX)	

SUSTAINABILITY	BOND	

FRAMEWORK	

	

	

SECOND	OPINION	BY	SUSTAINALYTICS	

September	2017	

www.sustainalytics.com	
 

Ankita	Shukla	(Toronto)	
Senior	Advisor,	Advisory	Services	
ankita.shukla@sustainalytics.com		
(+1)	416	861	0403	

RESTRICTED 

Elisa	Galván-Mondié	(Paris	-	Madrid)	
Senior	Advisor,	Advisory	Services	
elisa.mondie@sustainalytics.com		
(+33)	18	488	6652	I	(+34)	91	18	83	762	

Charlotte	Peyraud	(New	York)		
Senior	Advisor,	Institutional	Relations	
charlotte.peyraud@sustainalytics.com	
(+1)	646	518	0184	

© Sustainalytics 2017 

TABLE	OF	CONTENTS 
1.	 INTRODUCTION 
2.	 SUSTAINALYTICS’	OPINION 

Section	1:	Sustainalytics	Opinion	on	the	CDMX	Sustainability	Bond	Framework 
Section	2:	Mexico	City’s	Social	and	Environmental	Commitments 
Section	3:	Opinion	on	the	CDMX	Use	of	Proceeds 
Conclusion 

3	
4	
4	
5	
6	
9	
10	
Appendix	1:	CDMX	Bono	Sustentable	2017	–	Use	of	Proceeds 
10	
Appendix	2:	Analysis	of	CDMX’s	Environmental	Strategy	for	the	2016	Green	Bond	Framework
12	
15	
18	
19	
25	

Appendix	3:	Opinion	on	Green	Use	of	Proceeds	for	the	2016	Green	Bond	Framework 
Appendix	4:	Opinion	on	Risk	Mitigation	for	the	2016	Green	Bond	Framework 
Appendix	5:	Green	Bond/Green	Bond	Programme	External	Review	Form 

	

2 

APPENDICES 

SUSTAINALYTICS 
	

 

	
	
	
	

	

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

1. INTRODUCTION	
	
Gobierno	de	la	Ciudad	de	Mexico	(Mexico	City	Government)	has	developed	a	Sustainability	Bond	
Framework	in	accordance	with	which	it	intends	to	issue	Sustainability	Bonds	that	will	fund	social	
and	environmental	beneficial	projects	in	Ciudad	de	México	(“CDMX”,	“Mexico	City”,	or	“the	City”).	
This	Sustainability	Bond	Framework	has	been	published	in	a	separate	document.	The	net	proceeds	
of	each	sustainability	bond	will	be	used	to	refinance	or	finance,	in	whole	or	in	part,	existing	(re-
financing)	and	future	projects	that	promote	sustainable	development	and	the	transition	to	a	low-
carbon,	climate-resilient	economy.	The	Framework	defines	eligibility	criteria	in	nine	areas:		
	

1.  Essential	Public	Services;	
2.  Sustainable	Transport;	
3.  Sustainable	Buildings;	
4.  Renewable	Energy;	
5.  Energy	Efficiency;	
6.  Water	Efficiency	and	Wastewater	Management;	
7.  Pollution	Prevention	and	Control;	
8.  Conservation	and	Biodiversity;	
9.  Climate	Change	Adaptation.	

	

A	 list	 of	 eligible	 projects	 and	 projected	 allocations	 for	 the	 2017	 Sustainability	 Bond	 issuance	 is	
provided	in	Appendix	1.	
	
Mexico	City,	engaged	Sustainalytics	to	review	the	framework	of	the	Sustainability	Bond	and	provide	
a	second-party	opinion	on	the	alignment	of	the	Sustainability	Bond	with	the	Green	Bond	Principles	
2017	(the	“GBP”)	and	Sustainability	Bond	Guidelines	2017,	as	administered	by	the	International	
Capital	Market	Association	(the	“ICMA”).1	
	
As	part	of	this	engagement	process,	Sustainalytics	referred	to	previous	information	gathered	as	part	
of	the	2016	CDMX	Green	Bond2	(for	which	Sustainalytics	provided	an	opinion)	and	reviewed	relevant	
public	 documents	 and	 non-public	 documents	 relating	 to	 the	 design,	 planning,	 governance	 and	
development	of	the	CDMX	Sustainability	Bond	Framework.	This	document	contains	Sustainalytics’	
opinion	of	the	CDMX	Sustainability	Bond	Framework	and	should	be	read	in	conjunction	with	that	
framework.	

	

 
1  ICMA’s Green Bond Principles 2017: 

https://www.icmagroup.org/assets/documents/Regulatory/Green-Bonds/GreenBondsBrochure-JUNE2017.pdf  
ICMA’s Sustainability Bond Guidelines 2017:  
https://www.icmagroup.org/assets/documents/Regulatory/Green-Bonds/SustainabilityBondGuidelines-JUNE2017.pdf 

2   Sustainalytics Second Party Opinion on CDMX Green Bond Framework: 

http://www.sustainalytics.com///sites/default/files/green_bond_opinion_cdmx_11112016_final.pdf  

 
 

3 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

2. SUSTAINALYTICS’	OPINION	
	
Section	1:	Sustainalytics	Opinion	on	the	CDMX	Sustainability	Bond	Framework	
	
Overall,	 Sustainalytics	 is	 of	 the	 opinion	 that	 the	 CDMX	 Sustainability	 Bond	 Framework	 creates	
meaningful	 impact,	 is	 transparent,	 and	 aligns	 with	 the	 Green	 Bond	 Principles	 2017	 and	 the	
Sustainability	Bond	Guidelines	2017.	Some	considerations	in	Sustainalytics’	assessment	are	listed	
below:		
	

•  All	 green	 eligibility	 criteria	 for	 the	 use	 of	 proceeds	 are	 recognized	 by	 the	 Green	 Bond	

Principles	2017	as	project	categories	with	clear	environmental	impact.		

•  The	City’s	disclosure	and	processes	with	respect	to	management	of	proceeds	and	project	

selection	process	are	in	line	with	market	practices.	

•  CDMX	 commits	 to	 targeting	 proceeds	 towards	 disadvantaged	 populations	 by	 selecting	
projects	that	are	providing	essential	services	to	these	populations.	Since	CDMX	defines	these	
populations	in	alignment	with	Ministry	of	Social	Development,	Sustainalytics	is	of	the	opinion	
that	these	definitions	are	credible.	

•  Projects	or	services	under	the	Essential	Public	Services	eligibility	criteria	are	being	developed	
in	areas	designated	as	medium,	low,	or	very	low	on	the	Mexico	City	Social	Development	
Index,	which	will	ensure	a	targeted	population.	
o  The	 free	 admission	 interactive	 children’s	 museum	 is	 being	 developed	 in	 the	 low-
income	area	of	Iztapalapa	where	37.4%	of	inhabitants	live	in	poverty.	This	is	one	of	
the	highest	poverty	rates	in	Mexico	City.	

•  Sustainalytics	encourages	CDMX	where	possible	to	report	on	quantitative	KPIs	relevant	to	

project	categories.		

	
Alignment	with	Green	Bond	Principles	2017	/	Sustainability	Bond	Guidelines	2017:		
Sustainalytics	has	determined	that	the	CDMX	Sustainability	Bond	Framework	aligns	to	the	four	
pillars	of	the	Green	Bond	Principles	2017	and	the	Sustainability	Bond	Guidelines	2017.	For	detailed	
information	please	refer	to	Appendix	5:	Green	Bond/Green	Bond	Programme	External	Review	
Form.	
	
	
	

	

	

 
 

4 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Section	2:	Mexico	City’s	Social	and	Environmental	Commitments	
	
Mexico	City’s	Commitment	to	Social	Development:		
Sustainalytics	 has	 reviewed	 Mexico	 City’s	 General	 Program	 for	 Development	 2013-20183,	 which	
establishes	the	social	objectives	and	actions	for	the	City.	Sustainalytics	is	of	the	opinion	that	the	
Sustainability	Bond	is	aligned	to	Mexico	City’s	social	development	commitments.	The	program	has	
a	vision	to	create	a	city	of	freedom,	tolerance,	diversity,	fairness,	inclusive,	and	safety.	Accordingly,	
the	 program	 aims	 to	 promote	 equality	 of	 opportunity	 and	 gender	 equality,	 support	 vulnerable	
populations,	 create	 a	 safe	 city,	 and	 stimulate	 the	 economy.	 In	 order	 to	 achieve	 this	 vision,	 the	
program	is	structured	around	five	pillars:	
	

Pillar	1:	Equity	and	Social	Inclusion	for	Human	Development;		
Pillar	2:	Good	Governance,	Safety	and	Citizen	Protection;		
Pillar	3:	Sustainable	Economic	Development;		
Pillar	4:	Livability	and	Services,	Public	Space,	Infrastructure;	
Pillar	5:	Effectiveness,	Accountability,	Fight	Against	Corruption.		

	
Pillar	 1	 (Equity	 and	 Social	 Inclusion	 for	 Human	 Development)	 covers	 issues	 including	 exclusion,	
discrimination,	health,	education,	access	to	cultural	contents,	spaces	and	services	amongst	others.		
	
Pillar	4	(Livability	and	Services,	Public	Space,	Infrastructure)	covers	issues	including	public	space,	
public	 transportation,	 and	 water	 infrastructure.	 The	 program	 sees	 public	 space	 as	 an	 area	 of	
opportunity	for	culture	and	daily	social	interaction	urban	life	and	community	identity	expression.		
	
Sustainalytics	is	of	the	opinion	that	social	projects	to	be	funded	under	the	“Essential	Public	Services”	
eligibility	criteria,	which	include	a	community	center	for	the	elderly,	a	childcare	center,	a	children’s	
museum	and	funding	for	the	“HealthArt”	(SaludArte	in	Spanish)	program	at	schools,	are	aligned	with	
Pillar	1	and	Pillar	4.		
	
Mexico	City’s	Comprehensive	Environmental	Commitment	and	Targets:		
Sustainalytics	reviewed	Mexico	City’s	climate	change	strategy	in	November	2016	for	its	Green	Bond	
issuance.	 Sustainalytics	 believes	 that	 the	 City’s	 government	 is	 sustainability-focused	 and	 has	 a	
robust	short-	and	long-term	strategy	to	mitigate	adverse	environmental	impacts.	The	strength	of	
Mexico	City’s	climate	change	strategy	derives	from:	(i)	strong	local	climate	action	plans,	(ii)	track	
record	of	performance	on	plans,	(iii)	participation	in	international	forums	to	report	to	commitments	
and	actions.	Based	on	the	above,	Sustainalytics	believes	that	Mexico	City	is	well	positioned	to	issue	
Sustainability	Bonds.	
	
 
3 General Development Program of the Federal District 2013-2018: 
https://data.finanzas.cdmx.gob.mx/documentos/ProgGralDesarrollo_2013_2018.pdf 

 
 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Additionally,	Mexico	City	has	established	targets	to	reduce	CO2e	emissions	by	approximately	30%	
by	2020	relative	to	the	baseline.	The	City	tracks	and	reports	on	its	targets	through	its	CDP	Survey	
Responses	and	publically	reports	on	its	Scope	1,	2	and	3	emissions.	Sustainalytics	is	of	the	opinion	
that	reporting	on	targets	and	performance	on	Mexico	City’s	environmental	strategies	is	indicative	
of	the	priority	the	City	assigns	to	achieving	results.	
	
Please	refer	to	Appendix	2	for	a	review	of	Sustainalytics’	opinion	of	CDMX’s	Green	Bond	Framework	
published	in	November	2016.	
	
Section	3:	Opinion	on	the	CDMX	Use	of	Proceeds	
	
Proceeds	of	the	bond	will	be	directed	towards	nine	eligibility	criteria:		

1.  Essential	Public	Services;	
2.  Sustainable	Transport;	
3.  Sustainable	Buildings;	
4.  Renewable	Energy;	
5.  Energy	Efficiency;	
6.  Water	Efficiency	and	Wastewater	Management;	
7.  Pollution	Prevention	and	Control;	
8.  Conservation	and	Biodiversity;	
9.  Climate	Change	Adaptation.	

	
Overall,	Sustainalytics	is	of	the	opinion	that	the	proceeds	from	the	bond	will	have	clear	positive	
social	and	environmental	impacts.	Below,	Sustainalytics	has	provided	an	opinion	on	projects	under	
the	 newly	 included	 Essential	 Public	 Services	 eligibility	 criteria.	 Please	 refer	 to	 Appendix	 3	 for	
Sustainalytics’	Opinion	on	Sustainable	Buildings,	Climate	Change	Adaptation,	Sustainable	Transport,	
and	Water	Efficiency	and	Wastewater	Management.		
	
The	Importance	of	Improvements	to	Essential	Public	Services	in	Mexico	City:	
Essential	public	services	are	vital	to	establish	and	maintain	the	quality	of	life	of	citizens,	ensure	the	
health	of	citizens,	and	contribute	to	the	economic	and	environmental	well-being	of	a	city.	Essential	
services	 directly	 benefit	 low-income	 and	 marginalized	 communities	 and	 vulnerable	 population	
groups.	Mexico	City’s	current	public	service	projects	include	the	development	of	public	spaces	and	
development	of	projects	that	promote	children’s	education.	
		
Mexico	 City	 faces	 a	 lack	 of	 public	 spaces,	 as	 well	 as	 a	 problem	 of	 uneven	 distribution	 and	
connectivity	of	the	existing	public	spaces.	According	to	the	2013-2018	Development	Program,	the	
optimal	ratio	for	public	spaces	is	set	at	12	m2/hab	whereas,	as	of	2013,	public	space	was	estimated	

 
 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

to	represent	5	m2/hab	(or	9.5%)	of	the	total	area	of	the	city.4	Moreover,	this	space	is	not	distributed	
equitably	throughout	the	city	and,	in	many	cases,	the	existing	spaces	are	inadequate	with	respect	
to	accessibility,	quality	and	maintenance.	The	2013-2018	plan	recognized	the	need	to	widen	and	
strengthen	 these	 policies	 with	 particular	 attention	 to	 accessibility	 and	 targeting	 of	 vulnerable	
populations.	
	
In	line	with	this,	proceeds	from	the	2017	Sustainability	Bond	may	be	used	towards	the	development	
of	 a	 free-admission,	 interactive	 children’s	 museum	 in	 the	 low-income	 area	 of	 Iztapalapa.5	 The	
17,500m2-building	 will	 create	 a	 large	 public	 space	 between	 the	 museum’s	 ground	 floor	 and	 an	
adjacent	public	square.	In	addition	to	enhancing	and	extending	existing	public	space	in	the	City,	the	
museum	is	expected	to	achieve	a	positive	impact	on	the	learning	and	recreation	options	for	children	
in	a	low-income	area	of	Mexico	City.	The	interactive	museum	will	replicate	a	successful	museum	
established	in	Mexico	City	in	order	to	support	creativity	and	knowledge	in	science,	technology,	art,	
nature	and	environmental	stewardship.	Proceeds	towards	the	interactive	children’s	museum	is	in	
line	with	Pillar	1	and	4	of	the	2013-2018	Mexico	City	Development	Plan.	

Mexico	City	may	allocate	proceeds	to	additional	projects	targeting	children’s	education.	Projects	
may	include	the	refurbishment	of	30	childcare	centers	from	low-income	households	in	the	area	of	
Itzacalco	and	110	schools	across	the	city	with	an	objective	to	improve	the	learning	and	working	
conditions	 of	 the	 centers.	 Refurbishment	 may	 include	 reinforcement	 of	 the	 building	 structure,	
electric	installations,	sanitaries	to	improve	the	comfort,	hygiene	and	safety	of	the	building,	and	
installation	of	drinking	water-fountains.	
	
Sustainalytics	is	of	the	opinion	that	the	planned	investments	described	above	will	benefit	vulnerable	
and	low-income	communities.	
	
	

	

 
4 General Development Program of the Federal District 2013-2018: 

https://data.finanzas.cdmx.gob.mx/documentos/ProgGralDesarrollo_2013_2018.pdf 

5 According to CONEVAL, Iztapalapa is one of the three delegations in Mexico City presenting the highest proportion of poor people followed by 
Milpa Alta and Tláhuac. 
 

7 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

SDG	
SDG	4	–		
Quality	
Education	
	

SDG	6	–		
Clean	Water	
and	Sanitation	
	

SDG	7	–		
Affordable	and	
Clean	Energy	
SDG	9	–		
Industry,	
Innovation	and	
Infrastructure	
	
SDG	10	–		
Reduce	
Inequalities	

SDG	11	–		
Sustainable	
Cities	

 
 

SDG	Target	
4.1	-	By	2030,	ensure	that	all	girls	and	boys	complete	free,	
equitable	 and	 quality	 primary	 and	 secondary	 education	
leading	to	relevant	and	effective	learning	outcomes.	
4.2	-	By	2030,	ensure	that	all	girls	and	boys	have	access	to	
quality	early	childhood	development,	care	and	pre-primary	
education	so	that	they	are	ready	for	primary	education.	
4.7	 -	 By	 2030,	 ensure	 that	 all	 learners	 acquire	 the	
knowledge	 and	 skills	 needed	 to	 promote	 sustainable	
development.	
4.A	-	Build	and	upgrade	education	facilities	that	are	child,	
disability	 and	 gender	 sensitive	 and	 provide	 safe,	 non-
violent,	 inclusive	 and	 effective	 learning	 environments	 for	
all.	
6.1	-	By	2030,	achieve	universal	and	equitable	access	to	safe	
and	affordable	drinking	water	for	all.	
6.3	-	By	2030,	improve	water	quality	by	reducing	pollution,	
eliminating	dumping	and	minimizing	release	of	hazardous	
chemicals	 and	 materials,	 halving	 the	 proportion	 of	
untreated	 wastewater	 and	
increasing	
recycling	and	safe	reuse	globally.	
7.2	-	By	2030,	increase	substantially	the	share	of	renewable	
energy	in	the	global	energy	mix.	

substantially	

adoption	 of	

clean	

greater	
sound	

technologies	 and	

9.4	-	By	2030,	upgrade	infrastructure	and	retrofit	industries	
to	 make	 them	 sustainable,	 with	 increased	 resource-use	
and	
efficiency	
and	
environmentally	
industrial	
processes.	
10.2	-	By	2030,	empower	and	promote	the	social,	economic	
and	 political	 inclusion	 of	 all,	 irrespective	 of	 age,	 sex,	
disability,	 race,	 ethnicity,	 origin,	 religion	 or	 economic	 or	
other	status.	
11.2	 -	 By	 2030,	 provide	 access	 to	 safe,	 affordable,	
accessible	 and	 sustainable	 transport	 systems	 for	 all,	
improving	 road	 safety,	 notably	 by	 expanding	 public	

Alignment	with	the	Sustainable	Development	Goals	(SDGs):	
The	 Sustainable	 Development	 Goals	 (SDGs)	 were	 established	 in	 September	 2015	 and	 form	 an	
agenda	for	achieving	sustainable	development	by	the	year	2030.	These	goals	are	widely	considered	
to	be	the	next	step	to	the	Millennium	Development	Goals	(MDG),	which	were	time-bound	to	2015.	
The	below	table	summarizes	SDGs	of	particular	importance	for	Mexico	City	under	its	Sustainability	
Bond	Framework.	
	

Use	of	Proceeds	Category	
1.	Essential	Public	Services	
	
	

6.	Water	Efficiency	and	
Wastewater	Management	

4.	Renewable	Energy	

5.	Energy	Efficiency	
7.	Pollution	Prevention	
and	Control	

1.	Essential	Public	Services	

2.	Sustainable	Transport	
3.	Sustainable	Buildings	

8 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

SDG	12	–	
Responsible	
Consumption	
	
SDG	12	–		
Climate	
Change	

SDG	15	–		
Life	on	Land	

transport,	with	special	attention	to	the	needs	of	those	in	
vulnerable	 situations,	 women,	 children,	 persons	 with	
disabilities	and	older	persons.		
11.C	-	Support	least	developed	countries,	including	through	
financial	 and	 technical	 assistance,	 in	 building	 sustainable	
and	resilient	buildings	utilizing	local	materials	
12.2	-	By	2030,	achieve	the	sustainable	management	and	
efficient	use	of	natural	resources.	
12.5	 -	 By	 2030,	 substantially	 reduce	 waste	 generation	
through	prevention,	reduction,	recycling	and	reuse.	
13.1	 -	 Strengthen	 resilience	 and	 adaptive	 capacity	 to	
climate-related	 hazards	 and	 natural	 disasters	
in	 all	
countries	
13.3	 -	 Improve	 education,	 awareness-raising	 and	 human	
and	 institutional	 capacity	 on	 climate	 change	 mitigation,	
adaptation,	impact	reduction	and	early	warning.	
15.2	-	By	2020,	promote	the	implementation	of	sustainable	
management	 of	 all	 types	 of	 forests,	 halt	 deforestation,	
restore	 degraded	
increase	
afforestation	and	reforestation	globally.	

forests	 and	 substantially	

6.	Water	Efficiency	and	
Wastewater	Management	
7.	Pollution	Prevention	
and	Control	
9.	Climate	Change	
Adaptation	

8.	Conservation	and	
Biodiversity	

	
	
Conclusion	
Mexico	City	has	a	strong	social	and	environmental	commitment	to	promote	equality	of	opportunity,	
targeting	vulnerable	populations,	as	well	as	to	mitigate	the	impacts	of	climate	change.	The	CDMX	
Sustainability	Bond	Framework	and	the	City’s	Sustainability	Bond	issuances	may	also	set	a	positive	
precedent	for	the	promotion	of	sustainable	infrastructure	investment	by	public	sector	and	state-
owned	enterprises	in	Mexico.	
	
The	 CDMX	 Sustainability	 Bond	 Framework	 is	 in	 alignment	 with	 the	 four	 pillars	 of	 Green	 Bond	
Principles	 2017	 and	 the	 Sustainability	 Bond	 Guidelines	 2017.	 The	 Framework	 defines	 strong	
eligibility	 criteria,	 demonstrates	 a	 structured	 and	 transparent	 project	 selection	 process	 that	 is	
supported	by	the	Mexico	City	Finance	Ministry,	Mexico	City	Ministry	of	Environment,	and	other	
relevant	ministeries	and	outlines	clear	and	transparent	processes	for	the	management	of	proceeds	
and	reporting	on	relevant	social	and	environmental	KPIs.	
	
Based	on	the	above	considerations,	Sustainalytics	is	of	the	view	that	Mexico	City’s	Sustainability	
Bond	is	robust,	credible	and	transparent.	
	

	

 
 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

APPENDICES	
Appendix	1:	CDMX	Bono	Sustentable	2017	–	Use	of	Proceeds	
	
CDMX	has	identified	projects	(new	and	existing)	amounting	to	approximately	MXN2432	million	
that	could	potentially	receive	allocations	from	its	2017	sustainability	bond	issuance.	All	are	public	
works	projects	located	in	Mexico	City.	
	

Eligibility	
Criteria	

Projects	

Essential	
Public	Services	

New:	
- 

- 

Construction	of	a	children’s	
museum	for	experiential	
learning	
Rehabilitation	of	childcare	
centers	

Refinancing:	

Construction	of	a	community	
center	for	the	elderly	
Rehabilitation	of	public	schools	
participating	in	the	SaludArte	
program	(healthy	meals	and	
health	education	through	art	
workshops)	

New:	
Bus	Rapid	Transit	(Metrobús)	

Construction	of	the	road	
corridor	for	Line	7	

Refinancing:	
Mexico	City	Metro	(STC)	

Installation	and	repair	of	
equipment	that	improves	
accessibility	and	comfort,	
especially	for	elderly	
passengers,	and	reduces	
passenger	transit	times.	

Trolleybus	

	

-  Maintenance	of	trolleybuses	

Bus	Rapid	Transit	(Metrobús)	

- 

Construction	and	maintenance	
of	first	stage	of	Line	5	

- 

- 

- 

- 

Sustainable	
Transport	

 
 

Potential	Impact	Indicators	

Allocation		
(MXN	
mil)	

452	 Qualitative:	

-  Descriptions	of	projects	
including	the	need	for	
specific	infrastructure	
investment	in	various	
localities	

Quantitative:	

99	

-  Number	of	children	

benefitted	from	projects	
targeting	children’s	
development	and	learning	

-  Number	of	persons	

benefitted	(vulnerable	
groups)	from	public	services	
and	infrastructure	

-  Descriptions	of	projects	and	

environmental	and	social	
impact	assessments	where	
available	

- 

Energy/fuel	consumption	and	
reduction	(KWh/tons)	
-  GHG	emissions	for	city	

transport	

474	 Qualitative:	

994	

Quantitative:	

10 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

- 

Construction	of	the	road	
corridor	for	Line	6	

Water	and	
Wastewater	
Management	

New:		
- 

- 

- 

- 

Construction,	replacement	and	
maintenance	of	water	
collection	and	drainage	
facilities		
Construction	of	water	
treatment	plants		
Construction	and	maintenance	
of	water,	and	storm-water	
pumps	and	reservoirs	
Replacement	and	repair	of	
drinking	water	wells	and	
drinking	water	distribution	
lines	

Energy	
Efficiency	

New:	
Public	Lighting	

207	 Qualitative:	

Quantitative:	

-  Descriptions	of	projects	
including	the	need	for	
specific	infrastructure	
investment	in	various	
localities	
Explanation	of	mechanisms	
for	water	and	energy	savings		

- 

- 

- 

Volume	of	water	(m³)	
leakage	reduced	
Volume	of	water	(m³)	treated	
/	recycled	

-  Metrics	on	improvements	in	

water	quality	e.g.	
Biochemical	oxygen	demand	
(BOD)		

80	 Qualitative:	

-  Descriptions	of	projects	

including	specifications	of	
energy	efficient	equipment		

Quantitative:	

- 

Energy	consumption	and	
energy	use	reduction	in	city	
buildings	(KWh)	

Refinancing:	

125	

- 

- 

- 

Rehabilitation	and	technology	
updates	for	water	treatment	
plants		
Replacement	of	drinking	water	
distribution	lines	

Installation,	upgrades	and	
maintenance	of	street	lighting	
and	lighting	in	city	buildings	to	
improve	energy	efficiency	(LED	
bulb	installation)	and	reduce	
need	for	new	
equipment/material	

Note:	The	above	projects	have	been	registered	with	the	
Mexican	Ministry	of	Finance	(SHCP)	prior	to	issuance.	
Further	details	are	available	in	offering	documentation.	

Total	

2,432	

Various	Mexico	City	environmental	
and	social	development	disclosures	
including	CDP	reports,	disclosures	
under	CDMX	climate	change	and	
resilience	strategies	and	social	surveys	
and	program	evaluations	

	

11 

	

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Appendix	2:	Analysis	of	CDMX’s	Environmental	Strategy	for	the	2016	Green	Bond	
Framework	
	
Mexico	City’s	Comprehensive	Environmental	Commitment:	
Mexico	City	has	two	local	climate	change	focused	commitments.	The	first	is	the	Climate	Action	Local	
Strategy	2014-2020	(“ELAC”	in	Spanish),	and	the	second	is	the	Climate	Action	Program	2014-2020	
(“PACCM”	 in	 Spanish)6,	 which	 provide	 a	 broad	 strategy	 to	 combat	 climate	 change	 as	 well	 as	
corresponding	action	plans.		
	
ELAC	 outlines	 a	 commitment	 to	 reduce	 the	 emissions	 of	 GHGs	 and	 to	 take	 advantage	 of	 the	
opportunities	within	the	framework	of	the	Kyoto	Protocol,	the	Clean	Development	Mechanism	and	
other	 global	 instruments	 under	 the	 United	 Nations	 Framework	 Convention	 on	 Climate	 Change	
(UNFCCC).	In	2006,	Mexico	City	drafted	and	became	the	first	local	authority	in	Mexico	to	develop	
such	 a	 document.	 The	 GHG	 mitigation	 strategies	 and	 actions	 outlined	 in	 ELAC	 and	 PACCM	 are	
disclosed	in	Appendix	2.		
	
Strategic	Priorities	of	the	Climate	Action	Local	Strategy	(ELAC)	and	the	corresponding	Key	Actions	set	by	the	
Climate	Action	Program	(PACCM).	
		

	

 
6 Local Climate Action Strategy Local Climate Action Strategy Mexico City. Accessed on October 17, 2016: 

http://www.cger.nies.go.jp/gcp/pdf/a20060904/t4/sheinbaum.pdf  

12 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

	
	
Mexico	City	also	demonstrates	a	track	record	of	delivering	on	its	commitments.	For	the	time	period	
of	2014-2020,	PACCM	is	designed	specifically	to	be	a	planning	tool	that	integrates,	coordinates	and	
promotes	actions	to	reduce	the	environmental,	social	and	economic	risks	posed	by	climate	change	
through	strategies	contained	in	the	ELAC.	During	the	implementation	of	Mexico	City’s	first	Climate	
Action	Program	for	the	2008-2012	period,	6	million	tons	of	CO2e	were	mitigated,	which	represents	
a	decrease	of	4.5%	over	the	baseline	scenario.	The	current	Climate	Action	Program	for	the	2014-
2020	period	seeks	to	strengthen	the	Federal	District	Government	(GDF)	climate	policy	and	build	on	
the	achievements	of	the	previous	program.	
	
Other	examples	of	Mexico	City’s	performance	on	its	commitments	is	the	city’s	improvement	of	its	
environmental	management	efforts	since	1992,	when	the	United	Nations	labeled	it	as	"the	most	
polluted	city”.	In	1990,	the	Mexico	City	Government	presented	the	first	ProAire	to	combat	local	air	
pollution	as	well	as	CO2	emissions	and	has	since	implemented	four	consecutive	programmes.	The	
ProAire	IV	programme,	launched	in	2011	and	running	until	2020,	contains	89	measures	and	116	
separate	 actions	 across	 eight	 strategy	 areas,	 including	 energy	 consumption,	 greening	 of	 the	
municipal	transport	fleets,	education,	green	areas	and	reforestation,	capacity	building	and	scientific	
research7.	These	efforts	have	contributed	significantly	to	reducing	air	pollution,	and	Mexico	City	is	
recognized	by	the	UN	as	having	shifted	its	agenda	towards	environmental	sustainability.		
	
Finally,	Mexico	City	participates	in	various	international	forums	to	collaborate	with	other	cities	with	
respect	to	climate	change	adaptation	and	mitigation,	and	to	report	on	its	commitments.	The	City	
became	a	member	of	the	voluntary	Global	Covenant	of	Cities	on	Climate	(“The	Mexico	City	Pact”)	in	
2010.	The	Pact	is	a	voluntary	initiative	of	mayors	and	local	authority	representatives	that	aims	to	
advance	climate	actions.	As	a	signatory	to	the	Pact,	Mexico	City	reports	on	its	climate	commitments,	
performance	 and	 actions	 to	 the	 carbonn®	 Cities	 Climate	 Registry	 (cCCR).	 With	 respect	 to	
international	commitments	around	mitigation,	Mexico	City	is	committed	to	the	Compact	of	Mayors,	
which	pledges	to	reduce	its	GHG	emissions,	make	existing	targets	and	plans	public,	and	report	on	
its	progress	annually	through	CDP.	Mexico	City	was	fully	compliant	with	the	Compact’s	four-step	
process	 in	 20158	 and	 will	 continue	 to	 report	 on	 its	 progress	 through	 the	 newly	 formed	 Global	
Covenant	of	Mayors	for	Climate	and	Energy.	
	
Mexico	City’s	Environmental	Targets:		
The	city’s	Climate	Action	Program	(“PACCM”	in	Spanish)	provides	a	detailed	guidance	for	reducing	
emissions	by	approximately	10	million	tons	of	CO2e	by	2020	–	which	would	represent	a	decrease	of	
almost	 30%	 of	 emissions	 relative	 to	 the	 baseline.	 The	 city’s	 local	 government	 operations	 GHG	
emissions	reduction	targets	for	2020	include	a	reduction	of:	14%	in	transport,	9%	in	waste,	5%	in	
 
7 C40 Cities. Mexico City: ProAire. Accessed on October 26, 2016: http://www.c40.org/profiles/2013-mexicocity  
8 Compact of Mayors. Mexico City. Accessed on October 3, 2016: https://www.compactofmayors.org/cities/mexico-city/  

13 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

facilities	and	1%	in	buildings.	In	terms	of	adaptation,	the	Action	Program	aims	to	increase	the	city’s	
resiliency	as	well	as	the	population’s	adaptation	capacities,	particularly	for	the	5.6	million	people	
most	vulnerable	to	extreme	weather	events,	such	as	flooding9.	In	order	to	support	its	adaptation	
strategy	initiatives,	the	city	is	setting	up	a	Resilience	Office	comprising	3	divisions	and	a	15-person	
team	with	the	support	of	the	Rockefeller	Foundation’s	100	Resilient	Cities	initiative.	
	
Mexico	City’s	General	Program	for	Development	(2013-2018)	establishes	the	city’s	public	policy	
priorities,	 including	 all	 objectives,	 goals,	 and	 related	 actions.	 This	 Program	 establishes	 climate	
change	as	a	public	policy	priority,	and	includes	the	PACCM	reduction	target	of	10	million	tons	of	
CO2e	by	2020	as	a	policy	objective.	Mexico	City	also	tracks	and	reports	on	these	targets	through	its	
CDP	Survey	Responses.	The	city	publically	reports	on	its	Scope	1,	2	and	3	emissions,	which	totaled	
6,170,632	metric	tonnes	CO2e	in	2012.	
	
Mexico	City’s	targets	contribute	to	Mexico’s	national	agenda	for	climate	change	mitigation.	In	April	
2012,	Mexico	became	the	first	developing	country	to	adopt	a	General	Climate	Change	Law	(“LGCC”	
in	Spanish),	which	is	Mexico’s	main	political	tool	for	efficiently	tackling	climate	change	issues.	The	
law	is	a	legal	framework	that	aims	to	reduce	Mexico’s	emissions	by	50%	from	2000	levels	by	2050	
and	serves	as	the	foundation	for	the	country’s	40-year	National	Climate	Change	Strategy,	which	was	
adopted	in	2013.	Mexico’s	Climate	Change	Strategy	as	well	as	the	LGCC	clearly	demonstrates	that	
the	country	is	moving	forward	in	the	fulfillment	of	its	long-term	international	pledges.	
	

	

 
9 Mexico City’s Climate Action Program: 2014-2020. 

 
 

14 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

Appendix	3:	Opinion	on	Green	Use	of	Proceeds	for	the	2016	Green	Bond	
Framework	
	
Sustainalytics’	Opinion	on	Sustainable	Buildings	and	Climate	Change	Adaptation	in	Mexico	City:	
Buildings	in	Mexico	City	contribute	at	least	20%	of	GHG	emissions,	according	to	the	World	Resources	
Institute.	Improving	energy	use	in	buildings	will	help	Mexico	City	hit	its	ambitious	goal	of	decreasing	
greenhouse	gas	emissions	by	30%	by	202010.		
	
With	respect	to	the	sustainable	buildings	eligibility	criterion,	Sustainalytics	recognizes	that	(i)	LEED	
Gold	and	Platinum	lead	to	higher	energy	efficiency	gains	than	LEED	Silver,	and	that	(ii)	Climate	Bonds	
Initiative	sets	the	target	for	a	reduction	in	energy	consumption	at	30%.		However,	given	the	low	
degree	of	penetration	of	sustainable	buildings	in	Mexico	City,	Sustainalytics	views	LEED	Silver	and	a	
reduction	in	energy	consumption	of	at	least	15%	as	an	achievable	target.	For	example,	in	2014,	
Mexico	 City	 had	 37	 LEED-certified	 projects	 and	 148	 LEED-registered	 projects11.	 Of	 the	 certified	
projects,	29	out	of	37	were	certified	as	LEED	Silver	or	higher.	Given	this	context,	and	the	number	of	
buildings	in	Mexico	City,	Sustainalytics	is	of	the	opinion	that	setting	targets	that	are	realizable	for	as	
many	buildings	as	possible	will	result	in	significant	overall	impact.	Wherever	feasible,	Sustainalytics	
encourages	Mexico	City	to	make	best	efforts	to	achieve	LEED	Gold	or	Platinum	certification.	
	
With	respect	to	climate	change	adaptation,	Sustainalytics	has	reviewed	Mexico	City	government	
documents	which	confirm	that	the	city	has	identified,	and	seeks	to	address,	risks	posed	by	climate	
change	through	the	city’s	Resilience	Strategy.	The	Mexico	City	Climate	Action	Program	(PACCM)	
2014-2020	states	that	about	5.6	million	people	in	the	city	are	vulnerable	to	climate	change	and	
describes	their	geographic	location	to	threats	such	as	heat	waves,	floods,	and	landslides	based	on	
predictions	 from	 the	 Mexico	 City	 Virtual	 Center	 for	 Climate	 Change.	 In	 Sustainalytics’	 opinion,	
Mexico	City	could	strengthen	its	framework	by	conducting	climate	change	risk	studies	for	proposed	
projects	 under	 the	 adaptation	 eligibility	 criterion.	 Such	 project-specific	 studies	 strengthen	 the	
impact	of	the	use	of	proceeds,	as	they	establish	a	clear	case	that	adaptation	infrastructure	is	being	
funded	as	a	direct	response	to	climate	change	risks.		
	
Importance	of	Sustainable	Transport	in	Mexico	City:	
Mexico	 City	 already	 boasts	 an	 effective	 sustainable	 transport	 system.	 The	 city	 has	 made	
considerable	strides	in	improving	sustainable	mobility	options	in	the	last	decade	by	restricting	the	
use	of	private	cars	and	by	developing	its	public	transport	system.	77.9%	of	all	trips	on	a	typical	

 
10 World Resources Institute. Building a More Competitive Mexico City Through Energy Efficiency. April 1, 2015. Accessed on October 17, 2016: 

http://www.wri.org/blog/2015/04/building-more-competitive-mexico-city-through-energy-efficiency  

11 World Green Building Council. Green Building City Market Brief: Mexico City. August 2014. Accessed on October 17, 2016: 

http://www.worldgbc.org/files/1414/0982/5897/Mexico_City_-_City_Market_Brief_Final.pdf  

 
 

15 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

workday	occur	on	public	transport	in	Mexico	City12.	The	City’s	Bus	Rapid	Transportation	(“BRT”)	
system,	 Metrobus,	 commenced	 in	 2005	 and	 has	 1.1	 million	 daily	 passengers.	 Metrobus	 has	
increased	access	to	basic	public	services	while	contributing	to	climate	change	mitigation	and	has	
received	recognition	through	the	Sustainable	Transport	Award	in	201313.		
	
While	 noteworthy	 achievements	 have	 been	 made	 in	 Mexico	 City,	 there	 continues	 to	 be	 strong	
demand	for	continued	development	of	sustainable	transport	infrastructure,	as	indicated	by	Greater	
Mexico	City’s	projected	population	growth.	The	population	of	Greater	Mexico	City	increased	at	a	
rate	of	0.8%	per	year	from	2010	to	2015,	and	it	is	expected	to	increase	to	approximately	23.9	million	
in	2030	from	20.8	million	in	201414.	Improvements	and	expansions	to	the	subway	and	BRT	system	
will	help	to	meet	the	city’s	growing	transportation	needs	in	a	sustainable	manner.	
	
Importance	of	Water	Efficiency	and	Wastewater	Management	in	Mexico	City:	
Water	infrastructure	in	Mexico	City	consists	of	water	supply	and	distribution,	wastewater	collection,	
storm	water	collection	and	wastewater	treatment.	Water	management	has	become	a	high	priority	
for	Mexico	City	and	is	included	in	the	Mexico	City’s	Climate	Action	Program	(PACCM)	as	well	as	the	
city’s	Resilience	Strategy,	which	was	formalized	in	September	2016.	
	
Mexico	City	loses	41.4%	of	its	water	due	to	an	outdated,	run-down	water	system	which	is	plagued	
by	thousands	of	small	leaks	over	miles	of	underground	piping15.	The	water	distribution	system	is	
formed	by	12,000	km	of	pipeline	network,	built	30	years	ago,	which	contains	many	pipes	that	are	
now	rusty	and	broken	due	to	earthquakes	and	usage16.	Furthermore,	every	year,	the	city	extracts	
1.3	billion	cubic	meters	of	water	while	rainfall,	and	some	injection,	recharges	it	by	only	700	million	
cubic	meters17.	Thus,	underground	aquifers,	which	provides	around	70%	of	the	city’s	water,	are	
drying	at	an	alarming	rate.	These	challenges	results	in	70%	of	the	city	having	fewer	than	12	hours	of	
running	water	per	day18.	
	
The	Climate	Action	Local	Strategy	(ELAC)	and	Resilience	Strategy	identifies	extreme	rainfall,	which	
may	result	in	an	increased	number	of	floods,	as	one	of	the	expected	shocks	associated	with	climate	
change.	Shocks	to	sewage	systems	are	projected	during	intense	rainfall	seasons,	and	the	frequency	

 
12 Global BRT Data. Mexico City. Accessed on October 4, 2016: http://brtdata.org/location/latin_america/mexico/mexico_city  
13 Sustainable Transport Award Committee. Mexico City. Accessed on October 4, 2016: http://staward.org/winners/2013-mexico-city-mexico/  
14 United Nations. 2014. World Urbanization Prospects. Accessed on October 4, 2016, p. 26: 

https://esa.un.org/unpd/wup/Publications/Files/WUP2014-Highlights.pdf  

15 Ciudad de México. CDMX Resilience Strategy. 2016. Accessed on October 7, 2016: http://www.100resilientcities.org/page/-

/100rc/pdfs/CDMX%20Resilience%20Strategy%20-%20English.pdf  

16 Platinum. 2015. Water in Mexico City. Accessed on October 6, 2016: http://www.plantum.mx/single-post/2015/12/01/Water-in-Mexico-City-

Artificial-Scarcity  

17 https://news.vice.com/article/millions-of-taps-run-dry-as-mexico-city-fixes-some-decrepit-water-pipes  
18 Panoramas: Center for Latin American Studies at the University of Pittsburgh. 2015. Watering the Classes: Mexico City's Water Shortage. 

Accessed on October 6, 2016: http://www.panoramas.pitt.edu/technology/watering-classes-mexico-citys-water-shortage 

16 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

and	extent	of	such	shocks	may	increase	significantly	due	to	lack	of	infrastructure	maintenance	or	as	
a	result	of	future	earthquakes,	which	may	result	in	damaged	infrastructure	in	the	city.	There	is	an	
immediate	need	for	the	city	to	update	its	water	infrastructure	in	order	to	address	risks	related	to	
water	distribution	as	well	as	stormwater	collection.	
	
In	addition	to	water	management,	water	treatment	and	sanitation	are	also	important	issues	for	the	
city.	The	use	of	large	volumes	of	water,	and	the	inability	to	recycle	and	reuse	that	water,	generates	
a	large	volume	of	wastewater,	most	of	which	does	not	receive	adequate	treatment.	Consequently,	
wastewater	 strongly	 affects	 environmental	 quality	 within	 discharge	 zones.	 Today,	 the	 city’s	
wastewater	is	primary	diverted	to	the	Mezquital	watershed	in	the	north	for	irrigation	purposes.	
While	wastewater	has	been	used	for	irrigation	in	the	area	for	nearly	a	century,	the	untreated	water	
has	 led	 to	 sanitary	 and	 environmental	 problems.	 An	 additional	 benefit	 to	 increasing	 the	 city’s	
capacity	to	treat	wastewater	is	that	Mexico	City	may	be	able	to	alleviate	much	of	the	demand	for	
freshwater,	particularly	in	the	industrial	and	agricultural	industry.	
	
Mexico	City’s	Climate	Action	Program	(PACCM),	as	well	as	its	new	Resilience	Strategy,	prioritizes	
improvements	 to	 water	 infrastructure	 in	 the	 City	 and	 outlines	 specific	 targets	 to	 address	 the	
concerns	related	to	water	and	wastewater	management.	Mexico	City	has	layed	down	a	foundation	
to	plan	integrated	solutions	that	meet	the	challenges	posed	by	urbanization	and	climate	change,	
specifically	as	they	relate	to	water	management.	
	
	
	
	
	
	

	

 
 

17 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

loss	 of	

Appendix	4:	Opinion	on	Risk	Mitigation	for	the	2016	Green	Bond	Framework	
	
Well	positioned	to	address	common	challenges	associated	with	infrastructure	projects	in	
emerging	markets:	
Sustainalytics	recognizes	that	infrastructure	development	projects	generally	create	environmental	
and	social	risks	in	addition	to	benefits.	Sustainalytics	is	of	the	opinion	that	Mexico	City	is	well	
positioned	to	manage	and	address	such	risks.	
	
Environmental	risks	include	loss	of	biodiversity	during	construction,	pollution	from	construction	and	
construction	 materials,	 and	
land	 usable	 for	 reforestation.	 Mexico	 City	 conducts	
Environmental	 Impact	 Assessments	 (EIA)	 in	 order	 to	 assess	 and	 manage	 environmental	 impacts	
resulting	from	infrastructure	projects.	The	works	and	activities	subject	to	EIAs	are	defined	under	an	
article	within	the	Environmental	Protection	law,	which	includes	activities	that	can	cause	grave	and	
irreparable	ecological	imbalance,	and	have	a	harmful	effect	on	public	health	or	the	ecosystem.	Such	
projects	require	an	assessment	in	the	form	of	an	EIA,	a	risks	study	or	a	strategic	environmental	
assessment	before	construction	can	begin.	In	cases	where	a	comprehensive	study	is	not	required,	
an	administrative	filing	is	needed	to	initiate	the	project.	Mexico	City	further	requires	a	continuous	
assessment	 of	 environmental	 damages	 as	 well	 as	 an	 annual	 update	 on	 environmental	 licenses,	
which	covers	several	authorizations	and	permits	in	one	single	filing.	
	
Social	risks	include	negative	impacts	on	populations.	Mexico	City	has	confirmed	to	Sustainalytics	
that	no	slum	populations	exist	in	or	near	the	geographic	areas	of	the	eligible	projects	and	thus	no	
populations	are	expected	to	be	displaced.	With	respect	to	labor	conditions	for	eligible	projects,	
Article	123	of	the	Constitution	of	Mexico	requires	adherence	to	standards	and	principles	in	the	
workplace,	including	duties	of	the	employer	in	the	field	of	occupational	safety	and	health.	The	
Federal	Regulation	on	Occupational	Safety	and	Hygiene	(OSH)	and	the	Working	Environment	aims	
to	set	up	the	necessary	measures	to	prevent	accidents	and	diseases	in	addition	to	ensuring	safe	
and	healthy	working	conditions	for	workers.	Mexico	City	reports	having	a	stringent	enforcement	
system	to	ensure	compliance	to	all	applicable	labour	laws,	regulations	and	standards	and	ensure	
that	Mexico	City’s	employees	and	all	stakeholders	affected	by	proposed	projects	are	protected	as	
comprehensively	as	possible.	
	
	

 
 

18 

© Sustainalytics 2017 

SUSTAINALYTICS	
	
Sustainalytics	is	an	independent	ESG	and	corporate	governance	research,	ratings	and	analysis	firm	
supporting	investors	around	the	world	with	the	development	and	implementation	of	responsible	
investment	strategies.	With	13	offices	globally,	Sustainalytics	partners	with	institutional	investors	
who	 integrate	 environmental,	 social	 and	 governance	 information	 and	 assessments	 into	 their	
investment	processes.	Today,	the	firm	has	more	than	300	staff	members,	including	170	analysts	
with	varied	multidisciplinary	expertise	of	more	than	40	sectors.	Through	the	IRRI	survey,	investors	
selected	 Sustainalytics	 as	 the	 best	 independent	 responsible	 investment	 research	 firm	 for	 three	
consecutive	years,	2012	through	2014	and	in	2015,	Sustainalytics	was	named	among	the	top	three	
firms	for	both	ESG	and	Corporate	Governance	research.	The	firm	was	also	named	the	Best	SRI	or	
Green	Bond	Research	Firm	by	Global	Capital	in	2015	and	Most	Impressive	Second	Opinion	Provider	
in	2017.	For	more	information,	visit	www.sustainalytics.com		
	
	
Sustainalytics	
info@sustainalytics.com		
www.sustainalytics.com		
	
	
	
	

	

	
	
	
	

	

Best	SRI	or	Green	Bond	
Research	or	Rating	Firm	

Most	Impressive		
Second	Opinion	Provider	

 
 

25 

