 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

GREENKO GROUP  

GREEN BOND 

 

 
 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 

July 29, 2016 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 

Farnam Bidgoli (London) 

Trisha Taneja (Toronto) 

Charlotte Peyraud (New York) 

Manager, Advisory Services 

farnam.bidgoli@sustainalytics.com 

(+44) 20 3514 3127 

Advisor, Advisory Services  
trisha.taneja@sustainalytics.com  
(+1) 647 317 3695 

Senior Advisor, Institutional Relations  
charlotte.peyraud@sustainalytics.com  
(+1) 646 518 0184 

 

 

 
 

Vikram Puppala  

Manager,  

 
 

Vikram Puppala  

Manager,  

© Sustainalytics 2016 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

1.  Preface 

2.  Introduction 

3.  Framework Overview 

3.1  Use of Proceeds 
Eligibility Criteria 

3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
3.3  Management of Proceeds 
3.4  Reporting 

4. Sustainalytics’ Opinion 

Conclusion 

Appendices 

Appendix 1: List of Eligible Projects 
Appendix 2: Adherence to the Green Bond Principles 2016 

About Sustainalytics 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

3 

3 

3 
3 
4 
4 
4 
5 

6 
9 

10 
10 
11 

17 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

1. PREFACE 
 
Greenko Group is issuing a green bond that aims to fund the refinancing of five wind farms and three run-
of-the-river hydropower projects. Greenko Group has engaged Sustainalytics to provide a second opinion 
on  its  green  bond  issuance  and  the  bond’s  environmental  credentials.    As  part  of  this  engagement, 
Sustainalytics  held  conversations  with  various  members  of  Greenko  Group’s  management  team  to 
understand the sustainability impact of their business processes and planned use of proceeds for the bond 
issuance. Sustainalytics also reviewed relevant public and internal documents. This document contains 
two  sections:  Framework  Overview  –  summary  of  Greenko  Group’s  Green  Bond  framework;  and 
Sustainalytics’ Opinion – an opinion on the framework.  
 
2. INTRODUCTION 
 
Founded in 2004, Greenko Group, through its subsidiaries, develops and operates clean energy projects 
in India. Greenko’s portfolio includes wind, hydropower, natural gas, and biomass assets in India. Through 
these  assets,  the  group  generates  and  sells  electricity  to  state  utilities,  private  customers,  and  other 
electricity transmission and trading companies. It also operates as an intermediate financing company for 
the development of clean energy projects. Greenko Group is headquartered in Hyderabad, India.  
 
The Greenko Group states that its mission is to grow shareholder value by focusing on the adoption of 
technologies and methodologies that can meet the sustainable energy needs of India. On its website, the 
company  discloses  that  it  has  an  objective  to  be  a  responsible  corporate  citizen.  This  includes 
incorporating  sustainability operationally  and contributing  to  environmental  and  social  impact  in  local 
communities.  Greenko  aims to  achieve  this objective  through  the  generation  of clean energy and  the 
implementation  of  community  programmes  centred  on  education,  health,  and  environmental 
stewardship.   
 
In line with this objective, Greenko Group is planning to issue a green bond to refinance expenditures 
related to the development of wind and hydropower projects. These projects include five wind farms and 
three run-of-the-river hydropower projects. 
 
3. FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 
 
This section presents Greenko’s green bond framework for the use of proceeds, the process for project 
selection, the management of proceeds, and reporting. 
 
3.1  Use of Proceeds 

 

Greenko will use the net proceeds of the notes to refinance investments in five wind farms and three run-
of-the-river hydropower projects, which are eligible as per the criteria specified below.  
 

 
 

3 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Eligibility Criteria 
In order for a project to be refinanced through green bond proceeds, the project must meet one or 
more of the following eligibility criteria:  
 

1.  Expenditures related to the development of wind farms  
2.  Expenditures related to the development of run-of-the-river hydropower projects 

 
Please see Appendix 1 for a full list of projects that meet the eligibility criteria.  

 

3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
Projects  refinanced  through  the  green  bond  proceeds  were  evaluated  and  selected  based  on  (i) 
commercial feasibility (locational ease, land use, availability of resources); (ii) alignment with the eligibility 
criteria;  (iii)  alignment  with  Greenko’s  internal  environmental  and  social  risk  assessment  process.  The 
Business Development Department oversaw the project selection with regards to commercial feasibility. 
The Greenko Integrated Management Systems (GIMS) and Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) teams 
oversaw  project  selection  with  regards  to  alignment  with  eligibility  criteria  and  Greenko’s  internal 
environmental and social risk assessment process. This environmental and social risk assessment process 
ensures that: 
 

1.  All larger-scale run-of-the-river hydropower projects (>25 MW) undergo a formal Environmental 
Impact  Assessment  (EIA),  dam  break  analysis,  stakeholder  consultations,  and  receive  an 
Environmental Management Plan. All documents are required by, and submitted to the national 
Ministry of Environment and Forestry.  
  

2.  All  other  smaller-scale  hydropower  projects  and  all  wind  projects  undergo  a  voluntary 
Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) study to evaluate their environmental and 
social risk. These studies are based on the International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance 
Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability. These projects also undergo a voluntary 
stakeholder consultation to engage local communities, which is implemented by Greenko.  

 
Greenko has confirmed to Sustainalytics that all selected projects have undergone an EIA or ESIA, and a 
stakeholder consultation process. Greenko has also confirmed that for all selected projects, the relevant 
EIA or ESIA and stakeholder consultation must conclude negligible environmental or social disruption.  
 

3.3        Management of Proceeds  
The proceeds of the green bond issued by Greenko will be immediately allocated towards refinancing the 
eligible projects. Net proceeds from the notes after deducting fees and expenses will be deposited in an 
escrow account. The funds in the escrow account will be used to subscribe to Indian Rupee (INR) bonds 
that will be issued by the eight subsidiary companies that own and operate the wind and hydropower 
developments. The proceeds from these INR bonds will in turn be used to refinance existing external debt 
and shareholder loans stemming from expenditures related to the eligible projects. 
 

 

 
 

4 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

3.4    Reporting  
 
Allocation Reporting 
Greenko will disclose all allocation reporting on a project-by-project basis.  The company has committed 
to disclosing a list of all projects refinanced with descriptions and amount of proceeds allocated on its 
website. Greenko has also confirmed that an independent auditor will provide verification on allocation 
of bond proceeds to eligible projects. Given that all proceeds will be allocated immediately, verification 
on allocation of bond proceeds will be disclosed all at once at the end of 2016. 
 
Impact Reporting 
For selected eligible projects, Greenko Group implements renewable energy projects in India under the 
Clean  Development  Mechanism  (CDM)  of  the  Kyoto  Protocol.1  Greenko  has  confirmed  that  it  has  an 
internal CDM team that implements projects in accordance with the guidelines of the Kyoto Protocol, and 
is responsible for the generation of the Certified Emission Reduction (CER) credits that are sold in carbon 
markets. This team is also responsible for estimating greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions avoided through 
the development of renewable energy projects.   
 
For those projects where the CDM mechanism is in place (two of the eight eligible projects), Greenko has 
committed to quantitatively disclosing GHG emissions avoided (in tonnes of CO2 avoided per project) on 
their website, in addition to the  allocation reporting described above.    Similar to allocation reporting, 
impact reporting will be disclosed all at once at the end of 2016.   
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
1 The CDM, as defined in article 12 of the Kyoto Protocol, allows a country with an emission-reduction commitment under the 
Kyoto Protocol to implement an emission-reduction project in developing countries. These projects are then eligible to earn 
Certified Emission Reduction (CER) credits, each of which is equivalent to one tonne of carbon dioxide.  These CER credits are 
then traded in carbon markets. 

5 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

4. SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION  
 
The importance of renewable energy in India: At the twenty-first meeting of the Conference of Parties 
(COP21) of the United Nations Framework Convention for Climate Change (UNFCC) in December 2015, 
India submitted its Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC). INDCs require countries that are 
signatories to the Paris Agreement to make commitments that address climate  change  and to update 
those  commitments  every  five  years.  Key  goals  identified  by  India  in  its  INDC  include  (i)  reducing  the 
emissions intensity of its GDP by 33-35% by 2030, using 2005 as the baseline; (ii) achieving 40% cumulative 
electric  power  installed  capacity  from  non-fossil-fuel-based  energy  resources  by  2030.2  Given  this 
international pledge, India has set ambitious national targets with regards to installed capacity of wind 
and hydropower. By 2022, India is aiming to achieve a target of 60GW3 of wind installed capacity. The 
annual capacity addition target for Financial Year (FY) 2016-17 has been set at 4.1 GW, an increase of 70% 
from FY 2015-16.4 Similarly, India’s Strategic Plan for Renewable Energy (2011-2017) has set a target to 
achieve 6.6GW of grid connected power from small scale hydro by the year 2022.5   
 
In addition to its international commitments and corresponding national targets, renewable energy has a 
particularly high strategic importance in India. India is home to 30% of the world’s global poor, and has 
300 million people who live without access to electricity.6 Currently, India’s two primary sources of energy 
are coal and imported oil7, both of which have been recognized as unsustainable in the face of a transition 
to a lower carbon economy. Given these two realities, India faces the tremendous challenge of fostering 
socio-economic  development  while  transitioning  to  a  more  sustainable  economy.  In  the  face  of  this 
challenge, renewable energy in India can be seen to play the crucial dual role of mitigating climate change 
and aiding socio-economic development. Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Greenko’s development of 
wind and hydropower projects is a step in the right direction, and offers clear benefits that are aligned 
with India’s strategic priorities.  
 
Well positioned to address common wind and hydropower challenges in India: 
Sustainalytics recognizes that wind and hydropower developments in emerging markets such as India are 
exposed to specific challenges. Wind farm developments in India are criticized when they are built on land 
usable for reforestation, and for loss of biodiversity when built on environmentally rich lands. Hydropower 
projects in India have been criticized for negative impacts on rural populations, such as displacement. 
Larger  hydropower  projects  are  also  criticized  for  loss  of  aquatic  biodiversity  and  wildlife  habitat.  
 
2 Ernst & Yong, The Paris Agreement, A Universal Call to Action for Governments and Businesses: What it means for India, 
http://www.ey.com/Publication/vwLUAssets/ey-the-paris-agreement-what-it-means-for-india/$FILE/ey-the-paris-
agreement-what-it-means-for-india.pdf  
3UNFCC, India’s Intended Nationally Determined Contribution 
http://www4.unfccc.int/submissions/INDC/Published%20Documents/India/1/INDIA%20INDC%20TO%20UNFCCC.pdf  
4 Clean Technica,  http://cleantechnica.com/2016/03/04/india-plans-add-12-gw-solar-power-4-1-gw-wind-energy-capacity-
2016-17/  
5 Strategic Plan for New and Renewable Energy Sector for the Period 2011-17, http://mnre.gov.in/file-
manager/UserFiles/strategic_plan_mnre_2011_17.pdf  
6 UNFCC, India’s Intended Nationally Determined Contribution  
http://www4.unfccc.int/submissions/INDC/Published%20Documents/India/1/INDIA%20INDC%20TO%20UNFCCC.pdf  
7 US Energy Information Administration, India Country Analysis Brief, 
https://www.eia.gov/beta/international/analysis.cfm?iso=IND  

6 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

However, Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Greenko has a robust internal environmental and social risk 
assessment process that mitigates these concerns.  The robustness of this risk assessment process stems 
from: 
 

  Compliance  of  all  eligible  large  run-of-the-river  hydropower  projects  with  the  Ministry  of 

Environment and Forestry’s requirement for an EIA 
 
Greenko’s larger run-of-the-river hydropower project built on the Dikchu river in Sikkim (with an 
electricity generation capacity of 96 MW) has undergone a formal EIA, as required by the Ministry 
of Environment and Forestry. The EIA evaluated the project on numerous parameters, including 
sustainable environmental management, minimization of environmental impacts, integration of 
environmental risks into project plan, and management of community issues and heritage.  
  
Based on these parameters, the EIA identified eight main impacts of the project in the areas of 
Land Environment, Terrestrial Ecology, Water Environment, Aquatic Ecology, Noise Environment, 
Air  Environment,  Socio-Economic  Environment,  and  Geophysical  and  Seismic  Environment.  All 
impacts identified were manageable, and formed the basis of a comprehensive Environmental 
Management  Plan  (EMP). The  EMP  also  included a monitoring  programme  that  was  set  up to 
continuously assess social and environmental impacts during the construction and operational 
phases of the project. This monitoring programme directly informs Greenko’s efforts to mitigate 
environmental 
impact.  Greenko  has  also  disclosed  the  existence  of  an  Environmental 
Management Cell (EMC). The EMC is a team composed of a mix of senior managers from Greenko 
and technical environmental experts, and is responsible for the implementation of the monitoring 
programme and the EMP.  
  
Based  on  Sustainalytics’  review  of  the  EMP,  Greenko’s  constant  monitoring  of  environmental 
impacts,  usage  of  monitoring  results  to  inform  its  environmental  management,  and  the 
assignation of responsibility for these actions to a designated team, Sustainalytics believes that 
Greenko  has  extensive  measures  in  place  to  effectively  mitigate  the  eight  impacts  identified 
above.   
  
Specifically  with  regards  to  the  three  major  risks  posed  by  large  hydropower  projects 
(displacement, loss of aquatic biodiversity, and loss of wildlife habitat), the EIA identified some 
potential negative impacts under loss of aquatic biodiversity. However, these identified impacts 
are  not  irreversible  and  can  be  addressed  through  mitigation.  Sustainalytics  has  reviewed 
documentation relating to the EIA and EMP, and is of the opinion that the mitigation measures in 
place for these impacts, combined with the strength of the process described above, are sufficient 
to address any risks identified.  
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

  Alignment  of Greenko’s voluntary environmental and social risk assessment initiatives with IFC 

Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability 
 
Greenko also has internal processes to assess environmental and social risk that are beyond legal 
compliance.  For  smaller-scale  hydropower  and  all-wind  projects,  Greenko  conducts  voluntary 
Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) studies. These studies are based on the IFC 
Performance Standards, which cover a wide range of issues to address environmental and social 
risk,  including  management  of  environmental  and  social  impacts,  community  health,  resource 
efficiency and pollution prevention, and labour conditions.  
 
 

  Greenko’s comprehensive stakeholder engagement process 

 
Greenko has also disclosed to Sustainalytics that they conduct stakeholder consultations for their 
projects,  and  have  conducted  these  for  all  the  eligible  projects  identified  in  the  framework. 
Greenko’s stakeholder engagement policy explicitly identifies local communities as an important 
stakeholder, and describes a process for their engagement. This process specifies that a Greenko 
project manager can be approached by any representative of a local community who wishes to 
share a grievance. These grievances are then recorded in a Grievance Redressal register kept at 
each project site. Greenko’s Grievance Redressal Policy further specifies that grievances recorded 
at each project site are investigated by a committee, and a decision communicated to the relevant 
party within fifteen days. Sustainalytics believes this process to be extensive.  

 
In addition, seven of the eight eligible projects being refinanced through the proceeds of this bond are 
complete and operational. The Sneha-Kinetic Dikchu hydropower project is complete, and is expected to 
be operational in the following months. Sustainalytics has reviewed all projects, and found no evidence 
of environmental or social controversies associated with these projects.  
 
Furthermore, Greenko has demonstrated a commitment to mitigating environmental and social risks in 
its operations. The  company has received and maintained external certifications for its environmental 
management  system  (ISO  14001:2004)  and  its  occupational  health  and  safety  management  (OHSAS 
18001:2007). Given the integration of environmental and social concerns into its operations, its robust 
internal risk assessment process for wind and hydro projects, and the lack of environmental and social 
controversies  associated  with  the  eligible  projects,  Sustainalytics  believes  that  Greenko  Group  is  well 
positioned to issue this green bond.  
 
Alignment with Green Bond Principles (GBP) 2016: Sustainalytics has determined that Greenko Group’s 
green  bond  aligns  with  the  four  pillars  of  the  Green  Bond  Principles  2016.  Please  see  Appendix  2  for 
details.  
 
 
 
 

 
 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Conclusion  
Greenko Group’s green bond framework is transparent and provides clarity regarding use of proceeds and 
the outcomes of the green bond investments. Renewable energy is recognized by the GBP as an eligible 
green  project  category,  offering  clear  environmental  benefits.  In  the  context  of  India’s  sustainable 
development  challenge,  Greenko’s  development  of  wind  and  hydropower  projects  contribute  to  an 
important  national  priority  and  the  country’s  transition  to  a  low-carbon  economy.  Furthermore,  in 
Sustainalytics’ view Greenko Group’s internal environmental and social risk assessment process positions 
it  well  to  address  the  challenges  associated  with  wind  and  hydropower  development  in  India. 
Sustainalytics is of the opinion that Greenko Group’s green bond is credible and robust.  
 

 

 
 

9 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

APPENDICES 
Appendix 1: List of Eligible Projects 
 
 

Project 

Type 

Rayalaseema Wind Farm 

Wind 

Wind 

Wind 

Wind 
Wind 
Hydro 
Hydro 
Hydro 

Anantpura Wind Farm 

Bagewwadi Wind Farm 

Tanot Wind Farm 
Vyshali Wind Farm 
Sneha-Kinetic Dikchu 
Perla Hydro 
Bhilangana HEP 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

Generation 
Capacity (MW) 

Location  

10.0 

10.0 

34.0 

120.0 
100.0 
96.0 
10.0 
22.5 

Andhra Pradesh 

Andhra Pradesh 

Karnataka 

Rajasthan 
Karnataka 
Sikkim 
Karnataka 
Uttarakhand 

10 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
 
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 
 

 
 

16 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

ABOUT SUSTAINALYTICS 
Sustainalytics is the largest independent provider of sustainability 
research, analysis, and services to investors. We serve over 250 
institutional investors which include some of the world's largest 
asset owners and asset managers. Through over 20 years of 
experience serving the responsible investment (RI) market, we have 
gained a reputation for providing high-quality ESG research 
solutions and excellent client service. 

Sustainalytics is headed by seasoned professionals in the field of 
business, finance, and sustainability, with a wealth of experience in 
the Responsible Investment area. After more than 20 years of local 
experience and expertise in the Responsible Investment (RI) market 
Sustainalytics has developed a comprehensive understanding of 
trends and best practices and a solid process to assist organisations 
in integrating ESG considerations into their policies and strategies. 
We have worked with some of the world’s financial institutions 
including pension plans, investment managers and banks providing 
customised support to help them achieve their RI objectives. Clients 
include ABN AMRO, APG, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank, ING 
Bank, Lombard Odier, Lloyds Bank, Triodos Bank, UBS and over 250 
other financial institutions and organisations. 

Sustainalytics now has a staff of 250 employees globally, including 
over 120 analysts, with operations in Amsterdam, Boston, 
Bucharest, Frankfurt, New York, Paris, London, Singapore, Sydney, 
Timisoara, and Toronto, and representation in Brussels and 
Washington DC. 

In 2015, Sustainalytics was named the 
Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm 
by GlobalCapital. In December 2014, for 
the third year in a row, Sustainalytics 
was named best sustainable and 
responsible investment research firm in 
the Independent Research in 
Responsible Investment (IRRI) Survey, 
conducted by Thomson Reuters and 
SRI-CONNECT.  

 
 

17 

