 
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT 

 

MEDICAL CENTER 

GREEN BOND 

 

 
 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY 

SUSTAINALYTICS 

 
 
 

July 4, 2016 

www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 
 
www.sustainalytics.com 

Vikram Puppala (Toronto) 

Charlotte Peyraud (New York) 

Associate Director, Advisory Services 
vikram.puppala@sustainalytics.com 
(+1) 647 317 3694 

Senior Advisor, Institutional Relations  
Charlotte.peyraud@sustainaytics.com 
(+1) 646 518 0184 

 
 

Vikram Puppala  

Manager,  

 
 

Vikram Puppala  

Manager,  

© Sustainalytics 2016 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW AND SECOND OPINION BY SUSTAINALYTICS 

1.  Preface 

2. 

Introduction 

3.  Framework Overview 

3.1  Use of Proceeds 
3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
3.3  Management of Proceeds 
3.4  Reporting 

4. Sustainalytics’ Opinion 

Conclusion 

Appendices 

Appendix 1: Adherence to the Green Bond Principles 2016 
Appendix 2: University of Vermont Medical Center Commitment to Practicing Environmental 

Stewardship 

Appendix 2: LEED Score Card for Inpatient Facility 

About Sustainalytics 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

1 

3 

3 

3 
4 
4 
5 
6 

7 
8 

9 
9 

14 
16 

18 

2 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

1. PREFACE 
 
The  University  of  Vermont  Medical  Center  (UVMMC)  has  engaged  Sustainalytics  to  provide  a  second 
opinion on its green bond issuance and the bond’s environmental credentials.  As part of this engagement, 
Sustainalytics held conversations with various members of The UVM Medical Center’s management team 
to understand the sustainability impact of their business processes and planned use of proceeds for the 
bond  issuance.  Sustainalytics  also  reviewed  relevant  public  and  internal  documents.  This  document 
contains  two  sections:  Framework  Overview  –  summary  of  The  UVMMC  Green  Bond  framework;  and 
Sustainalytics’ Opinion – an opinion on the framework.  
 
2. INTRODUCTION 
 
The  University  of  Vermont  Medical  Center  is  part  of  a  five-hospital  network  that  serves  patients  in 
Vermont and northern New York. It is the primary referral center for these regions, serving a population 
of  more  than  1  million  people.  Dating  back  to  the  1800s,  The  UVM  Medical  Center  is  a  non-profit 
organization based in Burlington, VT, that has a mission “to improve the health of the people in [served] 
communities by integrating patient care, education, and research in a caring environment.”  
 
UVMMC is a mission-driven organization and is striving to be the greenest healthcare organization in the 
country.  UVMMC’s  environmental  policy,  as  published  in  its  signed  commitment  to  the  community, 
includes adherence to the following principles: Conservation and Sustainable Use of Natural Resources, 
Emissions  Reductions,  Waste  Reduction,  Energy  Conservation,  Product  Stewardship,  Sustainable  Food 
Procurement,  and  Upstream  Management  System  (education  about  root  causes  of  environmental 
problems).  In  accordance  with  its  commitment,  the  organization  maintains  a  multi-year  Sustainability 
Strategic Plan, and discloses performance on the plan in annual reports.  
 
To achieve one of the objectives of its 2016-2020 Sustainability Strategic Plan, UVM Medical Center is 
planning to issue  a green bond  to finance  the construction of a seven-level inpatient building sized at 
approximately 180,000 square feet. The seven-story building will host four floors of 32 single-occupancy, 
medical-surgical  single  rooms,  and  will  have  a  total  of  128  inpatient  rooms.  The  inpatient  facility  is 
registered  to  achieve  a  Leadership  in  Energy  and  Environmental  Design  (LEED)  Silver  certification.   
UVMMC has also established energy and water conservation targets for the new building, namely a 25% 
reduction in water consumption and a  35%  reduction in energy use  as compared to existing inpatient 
facilities.   
 
3. FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW 
 
UVMMC  is  issuing  a  green  bond  that  aims  to  fund  the  construction  of  a  LEED-certified  inpatient  bed 
facility. This project aligns with UVMMC’s 2016-2020 Sustainability Strategic Plan, and with the ‘Energy 
Conservation’ principle of its environmental policy.  The following section summarizes UVMMC’s green 
bond  framework  including  the  use  of  proceeds,  process  for  project  selection,  the  management  of 
proceeds, and reporting. 

3 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

 
3.1  Use of Proceeds 

 

All proceeds of the bond will be allocated to the construction of a seven-level inpatient building sized at 
approximately 180,000 square feet. The seven-story building will host four floors of 32 single-occupancy, 
medical-surgical single rooms, and will have a total of 128 inpatient rooms. UVMMC is seeking a LEED 
certification for the inpatient facility, and is aiming to secure a LEED Silver certification. 
 
While UVMMC has successfully achieved LEED Gold certification in the past, LEED Silver was chosen as 
the  designation  for  this  inpatient  facility  keeping  in mind  two  key  considerations.  The  first  is  that  the 
inpatient facility will be  built  on an existing site,  and will use  the  energy infrastructure  of the existing 
central plant. While the new facility itself will be energy efficient, and will qualify for LEED points based 
on its efficiency, UVMMC is not improving the efficiency of the existing central plant infrastructure as a 
part of this project. Additionally, UVMMC has also disclosed that this inpatient facility will be the first new 
building to be certified under the LEED for Healthcare (LEED-HC) construction rating system. Given this 
scope,  and  the  scale  of  the  project,  UVMMC  concluded  that  LEED  Silver  would  be  the  most  feasible 
designation.  
 

 

3.2  Project Evaluation and Selection Process 
 
The inpatient bed facility was selected as the recipient of green bond  proceeds based on the facility’s 
registration  to  achieve  LEED  Silver  certification.  LEED  is  an  internationally  recognized  green  building 
certification that provides a standardized measure of sustainability in building design and construction. 
LEED  certification  evaluates  the  sustainability  of  a  building  by  assigning  points  for  performance  in  the 
following key areas:  
 

  Sustainable Sites  
  Water Efficiency 
  Energy and Atmosphere  
  Materials and Resources 
 
 
  Regional Priority   

Indoor Environmental Quality 
Innovation in Design 

 
LEED  Silver  certification  requires  a  building  to  achieve  between  50  and  59  points  to  demonstrate 
performance  in  the  areas  outlined  above.  These  points  are  tracked  in  a  LEED  scorecard.  Given  that 
UVMMC will not know the status of its application for LEED Silver certification until after the building’s 
completion, they have hired an external sustainability consultant to track progress towards certification 
during the design and construction phase of the building. The external sustainability consultant- Thornton 
Tomasetti  (TT)  -  has  completed  a  LEED  Silver  risk  assessment  for  UVMMC’s  inpatient  facility.  The  risk 
assessment discloses that UVMMC is on track to achieve 55 points. Based on this assessment, UVMMC 
has disclosed to Sustainalytics that they feel comfortable meeting LEED Silver certification requirements. 

 
 

4 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Additionally, UVMMC has set performance targets in two of the abovementioned areas (Water Efficiency 
and Energy and Atmosphere), which also align with Green Project categories outlined by the International 
Capital  Market  Association’s  Green  Bond  Principles  (GBP).  These  performance  targets  include  a  25% 
reduction in water consumption and a 35%  reduction in energy use  as compared to existing inpatient 
facilities. UVMMC has also modelled the energy performance of its new inpatient facility using the metric 
of Energy Use Intensity (EUI). The EUI expresses a building’s energy use as a function of its size or other 
characteristics by dividing the total energy consumed by the building in one year (kBtu) by the total gross 
floor area of the  building (square feet). It is a metric developed by the U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency’s Energy Star program. UVMMC estimates that its new inpatient building will achieve an EUI that 
is 47% less than the EUI of existing buildings (estimated to be 143 kBtu/square foot/year). UVMMC’s LEED 
registration certificate and LEED Project Checklist also reflect its commitment to its stated performance 
targets.  
 

3.3        Management of Proceeds  

 
The  green  bond  will  be  issued  by  the  Vermont  Educational  and  Health  Buildings  Financing  Agency 
(VEHBFA). However, the entity using the bond proceeds to implement the eligible project will be UVMMC.  
The total cost of the inpatient building is expected to be approximately $190 million, and is being financed 
through  a  combination  of  working  capital,  fundraising,  and  short-  and  long-term  debt.  The  value  of 
UVMMC’s green bond is expected to be lower than the value of the green asset being financed, i.e. the 
proceeds from the bond will only account for a part of the total cost of the building.  
 
The proceeds from the green bond will be held in a liquid, money market account managed by UVMMC’s 
finance  department.  Part  of  the  bond  proceeds  will  be  used  to  reimburse  UVMMC  for  building 
construction costs already incurred. The rest will be allocated directly to construction of the building. 
 
A  requisition  process  will  be  followed  before  bond  proceeds  are  used  to  pay  for  construction  costs. 
UVMMC will send a requisition to VEHBFA (the issuer of the bond), requesting the release of bond funds 
to pay for construction costs. The requisition details what the cost is for and to whom the cost should be 
paid. VEHBFA confirms that the requisition is for the construction of the building, approves the request, 
and sends the requisition to the bond trustee for payment utilizing bond proceeds. UVMMC has noted 
that requests to use bond proceeds for financing costs unrelated to the new inpatient facility would be 
declined  in  the  requisition  phase.  UVMMC  is  confident  that  the  requisition  process  described  above 
provides  sufficient  assurance  that  bond  proceeds  are  directed  exclusively  towards  the  building  and 
construction of the inpatient facility. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

5 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

3.4    Reporting  
 
Allocation Reporting 
The proceeds of the Bonds expended on the inpatient building will be tracked by UVMMC. UVMMC has 
disclosed that their external auditor will provide additional assurance on allocation of bond proceeds by 
performing testing on payments made using the proceeds, and confirming adherence to the requisition 
process.  
 
Additionally, UVMMC has confirmed that they will annually disclose the amount of the proceeds of the 
Series 2016B Bonds that have been expended to date on the inpatient building to the Municipal Securities 
Rulemaking  Board’s  Electronic Municipal Market  Access  System  (EMMA).  This disclosure  will continue 
until such time as the proceeds of the Bonds are fully expended. Once all the net proceeds of the Bonds 
to be expended on the inpatient building have been spent, no further updates on the use of such proceeds 
will be provided.  
 
Impact Reporting 
UVMMC maintains consistent documentation that tracks progress towards LEED Silver certification. One 
such  document  is  the  LEED  status  report,  published  quarterly  by  UVMMC  on  its  website.  This  report 
details the status of the LEED scorecard, i.e. the current number of points UVMMC’s inpatient facility has 
achieved under each of the six key areas tracked by LEED certification. In addition, UVMMC will report on 
its success in achieving LEED silver certification to the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board’s EMMA.  
 
Additionally, UVMMC has established energy and water conservation targets for the new inpatient bed 
facility. More specifically, UVMMC is targeting a 25% reduction in water consumption and a 35% reduction 
in energy use as compared to existing inpatient facilities.  UVMMC has committed to reporting on these 
established  targets  after  one  year  of  occupancy  of  the  inpatient  facility  (currently,  the  building  is 
scheduled to be complete and ready for occupancy in July 2019). UVMMC has confirmed that after twelve 
months of occupancy, they will complete a measurement and verification process to determine whether 
the  energy  and  water  efficiency  targets  set  for the  inpatient  facility  have  been  met.  Measurement  of 
energy and water use will be accomplished through metering capability that will be installed as a part of 
the project, and the measured results will be benchmarked against UVMMC’s peers (i.e. existing inpatient 
facilities across the country or New England). UVMMC will then disclose the performance of the inpatient 
facility against the established efficiency targets on their website.  
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

6 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

4. SUSTAINALYTICS’ OPINION 
 
A  strong  environmental  commitment:  UVMMC  is  an  organization  with  a  strong  environmental 
commitment,  as  seen  by  its  policy  and  its  2016-2020  Sustainability  Program  Strategic  Plan.  UVMMC’s 
policy  includes  a  commitment  not  only  to  improve  its  own  environmental  performance  through  the 
sustainable  use  of  resources  and  the  reductions  of emissions  and  waste,  but  also  to  promote  greater 
environmental  responsibility  in  the  community  and  educate  its  workforce  on  environmental  issues. 
Additionally, UVMMC has a strong five-year sustainability strategic plan that outlines specific objectives 
against its environmental commitments. The plan also lays out measurable targets for its objectives, and 
assigns responsibility for each of these targets to the relevant department leaders. Senior management 
is responsible for monitoring the overall progress towards the broader environmental commitments.   
 
In issuing a green bond to construct its new inpatient facilities as a LEED-certified energy efficient building, 
UVMMC  is  realizing  the  environmental  commitment  outlined  in  its  2016-2020  Sustainability  Strategic 
Plan.  UVMMC  has  also  has  a  track  record  of  constructing  green  buildings;  it  has  achieved  LEED  Gold 
certification for The Glen and Rosemarie Wright Mother-Baby Unit and the Hinesburg Family Medicine 
Building. Given its strong environmental policy, integration of the policy in organizational actions through 
its  Sustainability  Strategic  Plan,  and  past  performance,  Sustainalytics  is  of  the  opinion  that  UVMMC 
regularly considers the environmental impact of its operations, and is well positioned to issue a green 
bond. 
   
Impact of LEED certification on Climate Change 
Energy efficient buildings are explicitly recognized by the ICMA Green Bond Principles as offering clear 
environmental  benefits.  Buildings  are  a  significant  contributor to  Green  House  Gas  (GHG)  and  carbon 
emissions. For example, in the US, buildings account for 38% of all carbon dioxide emissions, 73% of all 
national electricity consumption, and 13.6% of all potable water consumption. Improving their energy 
efficiency is a robust way to mitigate the effects of climate change.  LEED certification is an independent 
verification of a building’s energy and resource efficiency; for example, LEED Gold certified buildings can 
generate up to 34% less GHG emissions than the average commercial building.  
 
Adherence to the Green Bond Principles 2016  
UVMMC’s  green  bond  follows  the  guidance  provided  by  the  Green  Bond  Principles  2016,  and  is  in 
alignment with its four pillars. Please see Appendix 1 for more details.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

7 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Conclusion 
By issuing a green bond to finance the construction of its new, LEED Silver certified, inpatient building, 
UVMMC  is  acting  in  accordance  with  its  environmental  policy,  and  objectives  in  its  2016-2020 
Sustainability  Strategic  Plan.  It  is  aiming  to  reduce  GHG  emissions  through  energy  efficiency,  and 
sustainably use resources through reducing water consumption.  
 
UVMMC is selecting this project as the recipient of green bond proceeds as it is registered to achieve LEED 
Silver certification. It has also established clear energy and resource efficiency targets for the building. 
Given that the LEED process requires consistent documentation to track progress towards certification, 
UVMMC  has  committed  to  transparently  reporting  on  its  efficiency  targets,  on  its  progress  towards 
certification, and on its achievement of LEED certification. UVMMC's green bond follows the guidance 
provided by the Green Bond Principles 2016 (see Appendix 1), and is in alignment with its four pillars, 
which address the use of proceeds, process of project evaluation and selection, management of proceeds, 
and reporting. Based on the above considerations, Sustainalytics is of the view that UVMMC’s green bond 
is robust and credible. 

 

 
 

8 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

Appendix 2: University of Vermont Medical Center Commitment to Practicing 
Environmental Stewardship  
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

14 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

15 

 
Appendix 2: LEED Score Card for Inpatient Facility  
 

 

Disclaimer 
All rights reserved. No part of this second party opinion (the “Opinion”) may be reproduced, transmitted 
or published in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Sustainalytics.  
  
The Opinion was drawn up with the aim to explain why the analyzed bond is considered sustainable and 
responsible. Consequently, this Opinion is for information purposes only and Sustainalytics will not 
accept any form of liability for the substance of the opinion and/or any liability for damage arising from 
the use of this Opinion and/or the information provided in it. 
  
As the Opinion is based on information made available by the client, Sustainalytics does not warrant that 
the information presented in this Opinion is complete, accurate or up to date. 
  
Nothing contained in this Opinion shall be construed as to make a representation or warranty, express or 
implied, regarding the advisability to invest in or include companies in investable universes and/or 
portfolios. Furthermore, this Opinion shall in no event be interpreted and construed as an assessment of 
the economic performance and credit worthiness of the bond, nor to have focused on the effective 
allocation of the funds’ use of proceeds. 
  
The client is fully responsible for certifying and ensuring its commitments` compliance, implementation 
and monitoring. 
 

 
 

© Sustainalytics 2016 

ABOUT SUSTAINALYTICS 
Sustainalytics is the largest independent provider of sustainability 
research, analysis, and services to investors. We serve over 250 
institutional investors which include some of the world's largest 
asset owners and asset managers. Through over 20 years of 
experience serving the responsible investment (RI) market, we have 
gained a reputation for providing high-quality ESG research 
solutions and excellent client service. 

Sustainalytics is headed by seasoned professionals in the field of 
business, finance, and sustainability, with a wealth of experience in 
the Responsible Investment area. After more than 20 years of local 
experience and expertise in the Responsible Investment (RI) market 
Sustainalytics has developed a comprehensive understanding of 
trends and best practices and a solid process to assist organisations 
in integrating ESG considerations into their policies and strategies. 
We have worked with some of the world’s financial institutions 
including pension plans, investment managers and banks providing 
customised support to help them achieve their RI objectives. Clients 
include ABN AMRO, APG, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank, ING 
Bank, Lombard Odier, Lloyds Bank, Triodos Bank, UBS and over 250 
other financial institutions and organisations. 

Sustainalytics now has a staff of 250 employees globally, including 
over 120 analysts, with operations in Amsterdam, Boston, 
Bucharest, Frankfurt, New York, Paris, London, Singapore, Sydney, 
Timisoara, and Toronto, and representation in Brussels and 
Washington DC. 

In 2015, Sustainalytics was named the 
Best SRI or Green Bond Research Firm 
by GlobalCapital. In December 2014, for 
the third year in a row, Sustainalytics 
was named best sustainable and 
responsible investment research firm in 
the Independent Research in 
Responsible Investment (IRRI) Survey, 
conducted by Thomson Reuters and 
SRI-CONNECT.  

 
 

18 

