	

	
	
		

	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

	

	
	
	

	

	
	
	

TENASKA	ISEC	WEST		

GREEN	BOND	FRAMEWORK	

	

	

FRAMEWORK	OVERVIEW	AND	SECOND	PARTY	

OPINION	BY	SUSTAINALYTICS	

August	23,	2017	

www.sustainalytics.com	
	

	

Ankita	Shukla	(Toronto)	
Senior	Advisor,	Advisory	Services	
ankita.shukla@sustainalytics.com		
(+1)	416	861	0403	

Charlotte	Peyraud	(New	York)		
Senior	Advisor,	Institutional	Relations	
charlotte.peyraud@sustainalytics.com	
(+1)	646	518	0184	

©	Sustainalytics	2017	

TABLE	OF	CONTENTS	
1.	 Preface	

2.	 Overview	of	Issuer	

3.	 Framework	Overview	
3.1	 Use	of	Proceeds	
3.2	 Project	Evaluation	and	Selection	Process	
3.3	 Management	of	Proceeds	
3.4	 Reporting	

4	 Sustainalytics’	Opinion	

Section	1:	Sustainability	Performance	of	the	Sponsor	and	the	Issuer	
Section	2:	Impact	of	Use	of	Proceeds	
Conclusion	

Appendix	1	

Sustainalytics	

	
	
	
	

	

	

	

	
	

3	

3	

4	
4	
5	
5	
6	

7	
7	
7	
8	

9	

15	

2	

©	Sustainalytics	2017	

1. PREFACE	

	
CSOLAR	 IV	 West,	 LLC	 (“CSOLAR”,	 the	 “Company”	 or	 the	 “Issuer”)	 intends	 to	 issue	 a	 Green	 Bond	 to	
refinance	its	150	MWAC	Imperial	Solar	Energy	Center	West	Project	(“ISEC	West”	or	the	“Project”)	located	
in	the	Imperial	Valley	of	California.	CSOLAR	is	an	indirect	wholly-owned	subsidiary	of	Tenaska	Energy,	
Inc.	and	Tenaska	Energy	Holdings,	LLC	(collectively	“Tenaska”	or	the	“Sponsor”).	
	
The	Sponsor	has	engaged	Sustainalytics	to	provide	a	second	party	opinion	on	the	Tenaska	ISEC	West	
Green	Bond	Framework.	The	opinion	intends	to	provide	an	assessment	of	the	framework’s	alignment	
with	the	transparency	and	reporting	requirements	of	the	Green	Bond	Principles1	2017	as	well	as	assess	
the	Company’s	overall	sustainability	commitment	and	its	alignment	with	the	framework.	
	
To	come	to	this	opinion,	Sustainalytics	reviewed	several	public	and	internal	documents	provided	by	the	
Company	and	Tenaska.	These	documents	were	reviewed	to	understand	the	Company’s	commitments,	
the	use	of	proceeds,	management	of	proceeds	and	reporting	aspects	of	the	Green	Bond	to	be	issued.	
This	document	contains	two	sections:	Framework	Overview	–	summary	of	the	Company’s	Green	Bond	
Framework;	and	Sustainalytics’	Opinion	–	an	opinion	of	the	framework.			
	
		

2. OVERVIEW	OF	ISSUER	

	
Tenaska,	is	an	independent	energy	company	based	in	Omaha,	Nebraska.	Tenaska	and	its	affiliates	have	
developed	and	constructed	approximately	10,000	megawatts	(MW)	of	natural	gas-fueled	and	renewable	
power	generation,	and	manage	operations	for	approximately	6,800	MW	of	power	generation.		

Tenaska	 formed	 CSOLAR	 IV	 West,	 LLC	 to	 build,	 own	 and	 operate	 the	 Tenaska	 Imperial	 Solar	 Energy	
Center	West.	CSOLAR	is	the	100%	owner	of	the	Project,	which	is	a	150	MWAC	solar	power	generation	
facility.	The	Project	is	sited	on	approximately	1,130	acres	and	consists	of	approximately	182	MWDC	First	
Solar,	Inc.	(“First	Solar”)	Series	2	and	Series	4	thin	film	cadmium	telluride	(“CdTe”)	photovoltaic	(“PV”)	
modules.	The	Project	signed	a	25-year	Power	Purchase	Agreement	(“PPA”)	in	March	2011	to	sell	100%	
of	its	output	to	San	Diego	Gas	&	Electric	Company	(“SDG&E”).	The	PPA	supports	SDG&E’s	obligations	
under	California’s	mandated	Renewable	Portfolio	Standards.	
	
The	Issuer	is	issuing	Green	Bonds	to	refinance	the	ISEC	West	Project.	

	

	
1	The	Green	Bond	Principles	are	voluntary	process	guidelines	that	recommend	transparency	and	disclosure	and	promote	integrity	in	the	

development	of	the	Green	Bond	market.	They	provide	issuers	guidance	on	the	key	components	involved	in	launching	a	credible	Green	Bond	
and	aid	investors	by	ensuring	availability	of	information	necessary	to	evaluate	the	environmental	impact	of	their	Green	bond	investments.	

	
	

3	

©	Sustainalytics	2017	

3. FRAMEWORK	OVERVIEW	

	
The	following	section	summarizes	the	Company’s	Green	Bond	Framework	which	follows	the	four	key	
pillars	of	the	Green	Bond	Principles	(GBP)	including:	the	use	of	proceeds,	process	for	project	selection,	
management	of	proceeds,	and	reporting.	
	
3.1 

		Use	of	Proceeds	

	
The	proceeds	of	the	Green	Bond	will	be	allocated	towards	financing	projects	that	meet	the	following	
eligibility	criteria.	
	
3.1.1  Eligibility	Criteria	
	
RENEWABLE	ENERGY	
	
The	Company	will	use	Green	Bond	proceeds	towards	repayment	of	term	loan,	equity	proceeds,	swap	
breakage	costs	and	refinancing	costs	for	its	150	MWAC	Imperial	Solar	Energy	Center	West	(“ISEC	West”)	
Project,	which	has	been	operational	since	April	2016.	
	
The	Project	is	located	on	approximately	1,130	acres	of	land	and	consists	of	approximately	182	MWDC	of	
First	Solar	Series	2	and	Series	4	CdTe	PV	modules.		
	
Proceeds	 will	 be	 used	 to	 refinance	 capital	 and	 operational	 expenditures	 related	 to	 the	 acquisition,	
development,	operation	and	maintenance	of	ISEC	West.	Such	expenditures	may	include:	

a.  Land	acquisition	and	notary	costs	
b.  Project	studies	(e.g.	technical	solar	energy	potential	reports)	
c.  Environmental	impact	and	Social	impact	reports	
d.  Engineering	design	
e.  Construction	 work	 (including	 electrical	 installation,	 related	 building	 structures,	 supporting	

facilities	during	construction	phase,	etc.)	

f.  Acquisition	of	photovoltaic	(PV)	panels	
g.  Acquisition	of	electrical	equipment	(e.g.	transformers,	cables,	special	illumination	for	obstacle,	

etc.)	

h.  Acquisition	of	(other)	equipment	(e.g.	waterproofing	materials,	water	pressure	pipes,	etc.)	
i.  Commissioning	expenses	(costs	of	configuration,	security,	etc.)	
j. 
Legal	counseling	
k.  Risk	insurances	
l.  Project	management	

	
	
	

	
	

4	

©	Sustainalytics	2017	

3.2  Project	Evaluation	and	Selection	Process	

	
Project	Evaluation	and	Selection	
Proceeds	 from	 the	 Green	 Bond	 will	 be	 used	 to	 refinance	 the	 Project	 described	 under	 the	 Eligibility	
Criteria	 in	 Section	 3.1.1.	 The	 Project	 has	 signed	 a	 25-year	 PPA	 in	 March	 2011	 to	 sell	 100%	 of	 its	
renewable	energy	to	SDG&E.	
	
Environmental	Strategy	of	the	Sponsor	and	Issuer	
Tenaska	is	one	of	the	largest	private,	independent	energy	companies	in	the	United	States,	with	a	proven	
record	of	success	in	development,	design,	financing,	construction	management	and	operation	of	electric	
generating	 facilities	 and	 in	 energy	 marketing.	 While	 owning	 and	 developing	 a	 number	 of	 efficient	
carbon-based	generation	facilities,	Tenaska	is	currently	pursuing	renewable	energy	generation	facilities.	
In	 addition	 to	 the	 Project,	 Tenaska	 is	 developer,	 owner	 and	 managing	 partner	 of	 the	 Imperial	 Solar	
Energy	Center	South,	a	130MW	solar	facility	also	located	in	the	Imperial	Valley	of	California.		Tenaska	
has	 also	 expanded	 its	 focus	 on	 wind	 projects,	 having	 purchased	 a	 development	 site	 in	 the	 upper	
Midwest	for	the	development	of	a	470	MW	wind	generation	portfolio	(the	“Wind	Portfolio”)	in	2016	
and	signed	a	20-year	PPA	with	Minnesota	Power	for	250MW	of	the	Wind	Portfolio	in	2017.		
	
Risk	Mitigation	
The	 Project	 site	 is	 held	 under	 a	 long	 term	 lease	 option	 that	 consists	 of	 approximately	 1,130	 acres	 of	
privately-owned	and	previously	disturbed	land	that	is	economically	unviable	for	agricultural	production.	
The	 Imperial	 Valley	 of	 Southern	 California	 was	 selected	 as	 the	 location	 of	 the	 solar	 park	 project	
following	 an	 assessment	 of	 the	 site’s	 level	 terrain,	 constructability,	 access	 to	 existing	 and	 planned	
transmission	 infrastructure	 and	 compatibility	 with	 existing	 and	 neighboring	 land	 use,	 as	 well	 as	 solar	
irradiation	 levels.	 The	 Company	 received	 a	 solar	 resource	 assessment	 by	 3TIER	 in	 2013,	 using	
approximately	2-years	of	ground	observation	data	in	addition	to	its	own	data.	
	
Additionally,	a	recent	Independent	Engineer’s	Report	made	the	following	conclusions	on	the	Project:	

•  The	Project	has	been	designed	and	constructed	in	accordance	with	applicable	federal,	state	and	

local	regulations,	codes,	standards,	guidelines,	policies	and	laws.		

•  The	 July	 2017	 Phase	 I	 ESA	 performed	 by	 Tetra	 Tech	 for	 the	 Project	 Site	 was	 conducted	 in	 a	
manner	 consistent	 with	 industry	 standards,	 using	 comparable	 industry	 protocols	 for	 similar	
studies.	

•  The	 Project	 was	 designed	 and	 constructed	 in	 accordance	 with	 recommendations	 from	 the	
geotechnical	 reports,	 Drainage	 Study,	 and	 applicable	 building	 codes	 and	 the	 Project	 Site	 is	
suitable,	 from	 an	 infrastructure	 and	 geotechnical	 perspective,	 for	 the	 continued	 operation	 of	
the	Project.	

	

3.3 							Management	of	Proceeds		

	
Net	proceeds	from	the	Green	Bonds	will	be	immediately	allocated	to	refinance	the	capital	structure	of	
the	Issuer,	which	is	the	100%	owner	of	the	Project	that	meets	the	Eligibility	Criteria	stated	in	Section	
3.1.1.		

	
	

5	

©	Sustainalytics	2017	

	

3.4  Reporting		

	
Allocation	Reporting	
Tenaska	 and	 the	 Company	 will	 provide	 disclosure	 once	 proceeds	 are	 fully	 allocated	 from	 the	 Green	
Bonds	to	the	Project.	The	transaction	documents	will	include	a	certified	financial	model	outlining	the	
entire	use	of	proceeds,	and	an	initial	operating	budget	of	the	Project.	Each	investor	will	receive	a	copy	of	
the	transaction	documents.	Once	all	Green	Bond	proceeds	are	allocated	and	disclosure	regarding	such	
allocation	is	made,	no	further	updates	will	be	provided.	
	
Impact	Reporting	
Tenaska	has	committed	to	quantitatively	disclosing	the	net	installed	capacity	of	the	Project	in	MW.	
	
Given	that	the	Project	has	already	been	defined,	impact	indicators	will	be	static	throughout	the	life	of	
the	Green	Bond	and	no	further	updates	will	be	provided.	

	

	
	

6	

©	Sustainalytics	2017	

4  SUSTAINALYTICS’	OPINION	
	
Section	1:	Sustainability	Performance	of	the	Sponsor	and	the	Issuer	
The	Issuer,	CSOLAR	is	an	indirect	wholly-owned	subsidiary	of	Tenaska	Energy,	Inc.	and	Tenaska	Energy	
Holdings,	LLC.	Given	the	fact	that	CSOLAR	is	a	holding	company,	the	following	section	describes	the	
Sustainability	Performance	of	the	parent	Tenaska	Energy.	
	
Tenaska	has	developed	17	power	plants	with	a	generating	capacity	of	10,000	MW	since	1987.	With	the	
development	of	ISEC	West,	in	addition	to	other	solar	and	wind	projects,	Sustainalytics	is	of	the	opinion	
that	Tenaska	is	dedicated	to	expanding	its	renewable	energy	portfolio	across	the	U.S.	Additionally,	with	
the	 completion	 of	 ISEC	 West	 project,	 the	 company	 has	 demonstrated	 a	 proven	 track	 record	 of	
successfully	developing	two	solar	projects.		
	
In	addition	to	the	ISEC	West	project,	the	company	has	also	developed	the	130	MW	Tenaska	Imperial	
Solar	Energy	Center	South	(ISEC	South)	project	in	Imperial	County,	California	which	began	commercial	
operation	in	2013.	Both	ISEC	West	and	ISEC	South	supply	renewable	energy	to	San	Diego	Gas	&	Electric	
Company	(SDG&E)	under	long-term	power	purchase	agreements.	
	
Alignment	with	Green	Bond	Principles	2017	
Sustainalytics	 has	 determined	 that	 the	 Tenaska	 ISEC	 West	 Green	 Bond	 Framework	 aligns	 to	 the	 four	
pillars	of	the	Green	Bond	Principles	2017.	For	detailed	information	please	refer	to	Appendix	1:	Green	
Bond/Green	Bond	Programme	External	Review	Form.	
	
Section	2:	Impact	of	Use	of	Proceeds	
	
ISEC	West	has	been	commercially	operational	since	April	2016	and	comprises	of	1.8	million	PV	panels	
producing	150	MW	of	renewable	energy	capable	of	powering	over	55,000	California	homes.	The	ISEC	
West	site	is	held	under	a	long	term	lease	option	that	consists	of	approximately	1,130	acres	of	privately-
owned	and	previously	disturbed	land	that	is	economically	unviable	for	agricultural	production.	
	
Contribution	to	California’s	Renewable	Energy	Mandate	
Through	 the	 Global	 Warming	 Solutions	 Act	 of	 2006,	 California	 commited	 to	 reduce	 statewide	 GHG	
emissions	 to	 1990	 levels	 by	 2020,	 about	 a	 15%	 reduction	 from	 business	 as	 usual,	 and	 to	 reduce	
emissions	by	80%	below	1990	levels	by	20502.	In	order	to	meet	targets,	the	state	adopted	a	‘Scoping	
Plan’	 that	 contains	 an	 extensive	 list	 of	 measures	 to	 reduce	 GHG	 emissions,	 including	 a	 mandate	 for	
utilities	 to	 secure	 power	 from	 renewable	 energy	 sources3.	 California's	 Renewables	 Portfolio	 Standard	
(RPS)	 requires	 investor-owned	 utilities	 (IOUs),	 electric	 service	 providers,	 and	 community	 choice	
aggregators	 to	 increase	 procurement	 from	 eligible	 renewable	 energy	 resources	 to	 33%	 of	 total	
	
2	https://www.arb.ca.gov/cc/ab32/ab32.htm	and	https://www.gov.ca.gov/news.php?id=1861		
3	https://www.arb.ca.gov/cc/scopingplan/2013_update/first_update_climate_change_scoping_plan.pdf		

	
	

7	

©	Sustainalytics	2017	

procurement	by	20204.		
	
SDG&E	has	entered	into	a	25-year	power	purchase	agreement	with	CSOLAR	in	order	to	meet	statewide	
mandates	of	delivering	renewable	energy.5	Solar	projects,	such	as	ISEC	West,	have	enabled	SDG&E	to	
exceed	 state	 mandates	 by	 procuring	 35.2%	 of	 its	 power	 in	 2015	 through	 renewable	 sources	 and	 has	
partnered	to	have	45.2%	of	procurement	under	contract	for	2020.6		
	
Alignment	with	Sustainable	Development	Goals	
The	 Sustainable	 Development	 Goals	 (“SDG”)	 were	 set	 in	 September	 2015	 and	 form	 an	 agenda	 for	
achieving	sustainable	development	by	the	year	2030.	The	ISEC	West	project	advances	the	following	SDG	
goals	and	targets:		
	
Use	of	Proceeds	
Category	
Renewable	Energy	

SDG	target	

SDG	

	
	
Conclusion	
Sustainalytics	 is	 of	 the	 opinion	 that	 CSOLAR’s	 development	 of	 the	 150	 MWAC	 Imperial	 Solar	 Energy	
Center	West	Project	is	supporting	San	Diego	Gas	&	Electric	Company	in	meeting	its	renewable	energy	
mandate.	The	Tenaska	ISEC	West	Green	Bond	Framework	follows	the	guidance	provided	by	the	Green	
Bond	 Principles	 2017,	 and	 is	 in	 alignment	 with	 the	 four	 pillars,	 which	 address	 the	 use	 of	 proceeds,	
process	 of	 project	 evaluation	 and	 selection,	 management	 of	 proceeds,	 and	 reporting.	 Based	 on	 the	
above	considerations,	Sustainalytics	is	of	the	view	that	CSOLAR’s	Green	Bond	is	robust	and	credible.	
	

	

7.	Affordable	and	Clean	
Energy	

7.2	 By	 2030,	 increase	 substantially	 the	 share	 of	
renewable	energy	in	the	global	energy	mix	

	
4	http://www.cpuc.ca.gov/RPS_Homepage/		
5	http://www.tenaskaimperialsolar.com/power-tenaska-imperial-west-solar-project/		
6	http://www.cpuc.ca.gov/RPS_Homepage/	

	
	

8	

©	Sustainalytics	2017	

	
	
	
Disclaimer	
All	rights	reserved.	No	part	of	this	second	party	opinion	(the	“Opinion”)	may	be	reproduced,	transmitted	
or	published	in	any	form	or	by	any	means	without	the	prior	written	permission	of	Sustainalytics.		
		
The	Opinion	was	drawn	up	with	the	aim	to	explain	why	the	analyzed	bond	is	considered	sustainable	and	
responsible.	Consequently,	this	Opinion	is	for	information	purposes	only	and	Sustainalytics	will	not	
accept	any	form	of	liability	for	the	substance	of	the	opinion	and/or	any	liability	for	damage	arising	from	
the	use	of	this	Opinion	and/or	the	information	provided	in	it.	
		
As	the	Opinion	is	based	on	information	made	available	by	the	client,	Sustainalytics	does	not	warrant	that	
the	information	presented	in	this	Opinion	is	complete,	accurate	or	up	to	date.	
		
Nothing	contained	in	this	Opinion	shall	be	construed	as	to	make	a	representation	or	warranty,	express	or	
implied,	regarding	the	advisability	to	invest	in	or	include	companies	in	investable	universes	and/or	
portfolios.	Furthermore,	this	Opinion	shall	in	no	event	be	interpreted	and	construed	as	an	assessment	of	
the	economic	performance	and	credit	worthiness	of	the	bond,	nor	to	have	focused	on	the	effective	
allocation	of	the	funds’	use	of	proceeds.	
		
The	client	is	fully	responsible	for	certifying	and	ensuring	its	commitments`	compliance,	implementation	
and	monitoring.	
	
	
	
	
	

	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

	
	

14	

©	Sustainalytics	2017	

	
	
SUSTAINALYTICS	
	
Sustainalytics	 is	 an	 independent	 ESG	 and	 corporate	 governance	 research,	 ratings	 and	 analysis	 firm	
supporting	 investors	 around	 the	 world	 with	 the	 development	 and	 implementation	 of	 responsible	
investment	strategies.	With	13	offices	globally,	Sustainalytics	partners	with	institutional	investors	who	
integrate	 environmental,	 social	 and	 governance	 information	 and	 assessments	 into	 their	 investment	
processes.	 Today,	 the	 firm	 has	 more	 than	 300	 staff	 members,	 including	 170	 analysts	 with	 varied	
multidisciplinary	 expertise	 of	 more	 than	 40	 sectors.	 Through	 the	 IRRI	 survey,	 investors	 selected	
Sustainalytics	as	the	best	independent	responsible	investment	research	firm	for	three	consecutive	years,	
2012	through	2014	and	in	2015,	Sustainalytics	was	named	among	the	top	three	firms	for	both	ESG	and	
Corporate	Governance	research.	The	firm	was	also	named	the	Best	SRI	or	Green	Bond	Research	Firm	by	
Global	Capital	in	2015.	For	more	information,	visit	www.sustainalytics.com		
	
	
Sustainalytics	
info@sustainalytics.com		
www.sustainalytics.com		
	
	
	
	
	

	
	

	
	

15	

